
1. Insights Imaging. 2019 Jan 28;10(1):7. doi: 10.1186/s13244-019-0684-z.

Strategic research agenda for biomedical imaging.

European Institute for Biomedical Imaging Research (EIBIR).

Collaborators: Aime S, Alberich A, Almen A, Arthurs O, Barthel H, Clément O,
Crean M, de Souza N, Demuth F, Dewey M, Dousset V, Frangi A, Garos C, Golay X,
Gordebeke P, Günther M, Hahn H, Hierath M, Hoeschen C, Hunink M, Kauczor HU,
Krestin G, Krischak K, Langs G, Liu Y, Marti-Bonmati L, Matos C,
Mayerhofer-Sebera U, McNulty J, Muylle K, Neeman M, Niessen W, Nikolaou K,
Pereira P, Persson A, Pifferi A, Riklund K, Rockall A, Rosendahl K, Sardanelli F,
Sourbron S, Speck O, Valentini V, Zolda P.

This Strategic Research Agenda identifies current challenges and needs in
healthcare, illustrates how biomedical imaging and derived data can help to
address these, and aims to stimulate dedicated research funding efforts.Medicine 
is currently moving towards a more tailored, patient-centric approach by
providing personalised solutions for the individual patient. Innovation in
biomedical imaging plays a key role in this process as it addresses the current
needs for individualised prevention, treatment, therapy response monitoring, and 
image-guided surgery.The use of non-invasive biomarkers facilitates better
therapy prediction and monitoring, leading to improved patient outcomes.
Innovative diagnostic imaging technologies provide information about disease
characteristics which, coupled with biological, genetic and -omics data, will
contribute to an individualised diagnosis and therapy approach.In the emerging
field of theranostics, imaging tools together with therapeutic agents enable the 
selection of best treatments and allow tailored therapeutic interventions.For
prenatal monitoring, the use of innovative imaging technologies can ensure an
early detection of malfunctions or disease.The application of biomedical imaging 
for diagnosis and management of lifestyle-induced diseases will help to avoid
disease development through lifestyle changes.Artificial intelligence and machine
learning in imaging will facilitate the improvement of image interpretation and
lead to better disease prediction and therapy planning.As biomedical imaging
technologies and analysis of existing imaging data provide solutions to current
challenges and needs in healthcare, appropriate funding for dedicated research is
needed to implement the innovative approaches for the wellbeing of citizens and
patients.

DOI: 10.1186/s13244-019-0684-z 
PMID: 30693378 


2. J Assist Reprod Genet. 2019 Jan 28. doi: 10.1007/s10815-019-01408-x. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Artificial intelligence and machine learning for human reproduction and
embryology presented at ASRM and ESHRE 2018.

Curchoe CL(1), Bormann CL(2).

Author information: 
(1)San Diego Fertility Center, 11425 El Camino Real, San Diego, CA, 92130, USA.
carolcurchoe@32atps.com.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

Sixteen artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) approaches were
reported at the 2018 annual congresses of the American Society for Reproductive
Biology (9) and European Society for Human Reproduction and Embryology (7).
Nearly every aspect of patient care was investigated, including sperm morphology,
sperm identification, identification of empty or oocyte containing follicles,
predicting embryo cell stages, predicting blastocyst formation from oocytes,
assessing human blastocyst quality, predicting live birth from blastocysts,
improving embryo selection, and for developing optimal IVF stimulation protocols.
This represents a substantial increase in reports over 2017, where just one
abstract each was reported at ASRM (AI) and ESHRE (ML). Our analysis reveals wide
variability in how AI and ML methods are described (from not at all or very
generic to fully describing the architectural framework) and large variability on
accepted dataset sizes (from just 3 patients with 16 follicles in the smallest
dataset to 661,060 images of 11,898 human embryos in one of the largest). AI and 
ML are clearly burgeoning methodologies in human reproduction and embryology and 
would benefit from early application of reporting standards.

DOI: 10.1007/s10815-019-01408-x 
PMID: 30690654 


3. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2019 Jan 28. doi: 10.1021/acsami.8b20929. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Recent Advances in Flexible and Wearable Pressure Sensors Based on Piezoresistive
3D Monolithic Conductive Sponges.

Ding Y, Xu T, Onyilagha O, Fong H, Zhu Z.

High-performance flexible strain and pressure sensors are important components of
the systems for human motion detection, human-machine interaction, soft robotics,
electronic skin, etc., which are envisioned as the key technologies for
applications in future human healthcare monitoring and artificial intelligence.
In recent years, highly flexible and wearable strain/pressure sensors have been
developed based on various materials/structures and transduction mechanisms.
Piezoresistive three-dimensional (3D) monolithic conductive sponge, the
resistance of which changes upon external pressure or stimuli, has emerged as a
forefront material for flexible and wearable pressure sensor due to its excellent
sensor performance, facile fabrication, and simple circuit integration. This
review focuses on the rapid development of the piezoresistive pressure sensors
based on 3D conductive sponges. Various piezoresistive conductive sponges are
categorized into four different types and their material and structural
characteristics are summarized. Methods for preparation of the 3D conductive
sponges are reviewed, followed by examples of device performance and selected
applications. The review concludes with a critical reflection of the current
status and challenges. Prospects of the 3D conductive sponge for flexible and
wearable pressure sensor are discussed.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.8b20929 
PMID: 30689335 


4. J Chem Inf Model. 2019 Jan 28;59(1):117-126. doi: 10.1021/acs.jcim.8b00348. Epub 
2018 Nov 21.

Dissecting Machine-Learning Prediction of Molecular Activity: Is an Applicability
Domain Needed for Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship Models Based on
Deep Neural Networks?

Liu R(1), Wang H(1), Glover KP(2), Feasel MG(2), Wallqvist A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Defense, Biotechnology High Performance Computing Software
Applications Institute, Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research Center ,
U.S. Army Medical Research and Materiel Command , Fort Detrick , Maryland 21702 ,
United States.
(2)U.S. Army-Edgewood Chemical Biological Center , Aberdeen Proving Ground ,
Maryland 21010 , United States.

Deep neural networks (DNNs) are the major drivers of recent progress in
artificial intelligence. They have emerged as the machine-learning method of
choice in solving image and speech recognition problems, and their potential has 
raised the expectation of similar breakthroughs in other fields of study. In this
work, we compared three machine-learning methods-DNN, random forest (a popular
conventional method), and variable nearest neighbor (arguably the simplest
method)-in their ability to predict the molecular activities of 21 in vivo and in
vitro data sets. Surprisingly, the overall performance of the three methods was
similar. For molecules with structurally close near neighbors in the training
sets, all methods gave reliable predictions, whereas for molecules increasingly
dissimilar to the training molecules, all three methods gave progressively poorer
predictions. For molecules sharing little to no structural similarity with the
training molecules, all three methods gave a nearly constant value-approximately 
the average activity of all training molecules-as their predictions. The results 
confirm conclusions deduced from analyzing molecular applicability domains for
accurate predictions, i.e., the most important determinant of the accuracy of
predicting a molecule is its similarity to the training samples. This highlights 
the fact that even in the age of deep learning, developing a truly high-quality
model relies less on the choice of machine-learning approach and more on the
availability of experimental efforts to generate sufficient training data of
structurally diverse compounds. The results also indicate that the distance to
training molecules offers a natural and intuitive basis for defining
applicability domains to flag reliable and unreliable quantitative
structure-activity relationship predictions.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jcim.8b00348 
PMID: 30412667 


