---
layout: post
title: "2019/1/28 1 Updates"
---

1. Biosens Bioelectron. 2019 Jan 9;129:93-99. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2018.12.051. [Epub
ahead of print]

Exploiting electrostatic shielding-effect of metal nanoparticles to recognize
uncharged small molecule affinity with label-free graphene electronic biosensor.

Wang C(1), Ye W(2), Li Y(3), Zhu Y(4), Lin Q(4), He M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Sensor Technology of Environment and Health, School of Environment,
Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China; State Key Joint Laboratory of
Environmental Simulation and Pollution Control, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China; Department of Artificial Intelligence, College of Electronic and
Communication Engineering, Tianjin Normal University, Tianjin 300387, China;
Tianjin Key Laboratory of Wireless Mobile Communications and Power Transmission, 
Tianjin Normal University, Tianjin 300387, China. Electronic address:
cwang@tsinghua.edu.cn.
(2)Center for Sensor Technology of Environment and Health, School of Environment,
Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China; State Key Joint Laboratory of
Environmental Simulation and Pollution Control, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China; Institute of Physical Chemistry, Johannes Gutenberg University of 
Mainz, Mainz D-55128, Germany; Graduate School of Excellence Materials Science in
Mainz (MAINZ), Mainz D-55128, Germany.
(3)Center for Sensor Technology of Environment and Health, School of Environment,
Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China; State Key Joint Laboratory of
Environmental Simulation and Pollution Control, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China; Department of Mechanical Engineering, Columbia University, New
York, NY 10027, United States.
(4)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027,
United States.
(5)Center for Sensor Technology of Environment and Health, School of Environment,
Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China; State Key Joint Laboratory of
Environmental Simulation and Pollution Control, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China. Electronic address: hemiao@tsinghua.edu.cn.

Label-free electronic biosensors as the non-electrochemical analytical tools
without requirement of sophisticated instrumentation have become attractive,
although their application in competitive affinity sensing of uncharged small
molecules is still ﻿hindered by a difficulty in the development of competing
analogues. To break through this bottleneck, we report a novel analogue made by
epitope-modified metal nanoparticles to enable the electronic signaling of
small-molecule analyte recognition via competitive affinity. While the electronic
signaling capability of metal nanoparticle analogues is demonstrated by a
graphene field-effect transistor bioassay of small-molecule glucose as a
proof-of-principle, interestingly, we discover a new electronic signaling
mechanism in the metal nanoparticle affinity, different to the intuitive charge
accumulation expectation. On the basis of Kelvin-probe force microscopic
potential characterization and theoretical discussion, we fundamentally
elucidated the signaling mechanism as a seldom used electrostatic
shielding-effect, that is, in the analogue-receptor affinity, metal nanoparticles
with the charge density lower than receptor biomolecules can reduce the
collective electrical potential via charge dispersion. Further consider the
convenient epitope-modifiability of metal nanoparticles, the easy-to-develop
analogues for diverse target analyte might potentially be predictable in the
future. And the application of label-free electronic biosensors for the
competitive affinity bioassay of range-extended small molecules may thus be
promoted based on the electrostatic shielding-effect.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2018.12.051 
PMID: 30685707 

