---
layout: post
title: "2019/02/01 46 Updates"
---

1. Zhonghua Wei Chang Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2019 Jan 25;22(1):9-16.

[Looking back 2018--focused on colorectal cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Cai J(1), Wang L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, the Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen
University, Guangzhou 510655, China.
(2)Department of Colorectal Surgery, the Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen
University, Guangzhou 510655, China.Email:wang19@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

Colorectal cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors, and its incidence
and mortality are increasing year by year in China. In 2018, for the first time, 
the FIT-DNA test was written into the expert consensus as the recommended
screening technology in China. As the core technology of colorectal cancer
screening, colonoscopy for right colon cancer is further supported. With the
application of artificial intelligence technology in colonoscopy, the efficiency 
and accuracy of screening will be greatly improved. New screening technologies
represented by circulating tumor cell (CTC) and individualized screening programs
based on molecular genetics are future directions. As the core of colorectal
cancer treatment, surgery has become quite mature. Traditional laparoscopic
surgery has become an optimal choice for colorectal cancer surgery. Open surgery,
robotic surgery and single-incision laparoscopic surgery have not been found
superior to multiport laparoscopic surgery. The focus of surgical research is to 
precisely select surgical methods, and to protect normal physiological function
of patients. For example, in order to reduce complications and improve quality of
life in patients undergoing rectal cancer surgery after neoadjuvant radiotherapy,
the "Tianhe surgery" was invented by the authors' team. Chemotherapy as the basis
of colorectal cancer treatment has shown good results in many aspects: The
PRODIGE-7 trial has confirmed that systemic chemotherapy is more important for
colorectal peritoneal metastasis after high quality cytoreductive surgery (CRS). 
While the addition of hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) with
oxaliplatin does not result in the better overall survival (OS), but increases
the risk of postoperative complications. The FOWARC study has found that the
FOLFOX regimen (oxaliplatin and fluorouracil) achieved a 3-year disease-free
survival (DFS) rate similar to that of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, challenging
the clinical value of radiotherapy. Although several studies have confirmed that 
total neoadjuvant therapy (TNT) can improve pathological complete response (pCR) 
rate and DFS of patients with colorectal cancer, we do not recommend unretricted 
expansion of chemotherapy. How to combine the clinical characteristics and
molecular biological markers to select high-risk groups for chemotherapy, and how
to use personalized medicine according to the genetic characteristics of
patients, are also hot spots of current research. Immunotherapy is a game-changer
in all aspects of colorectal cancer. In order to adapt to the immune therapy, the
efficacy evaluation standard of solid tumors (iRECIST) has been revised. Immune
score could redefine tumor clinical staging system. Both the Checkmate-142 study 
for advanced tumors and the NCT03026140 study on neoadjuvant treatment for early 
tumors showed promising results. Although no significant progress has been seen
in the EGFR-targeted therapy and VEGFR-targeted therapy, new targeted drugs such 
as Eltanexor (ETLA, kpt -8602) and cobimetinib (MEK inhibitor) have been found to
be effective in clinical studies. According to the detection results of
tumor-related signaling pathways in patients, cross-guidance selection of
targeted drug therapy is also the direction of research. Although the IWWD
research results give a big blow to the "watch and wait" strategy, with the
exploration of TNT plan, more accurate imaging efficacy evaluation and the
application of immunotherapy, the "watch and wait" strategy will also receive new
attention. In recent years, we have seen the rapid development of artificial
intelligence technology. Although it is still in the exploratory stage in the
field of medicine, it will certainly reshape all aspects of colorectal cancer
diagnosis and treatment in the future, leading the research direction.


PMID: 30703787 


2. J Neural Eng. 2019 Jan 31. doi: 10.1088/1741-2552/ab039f. [Epub ahead of print]

Potential EEG biomarkers of sedation doses in intensive care patients unveiled by
using a machine learning approach.

Sanz-Garcia A(1), Perez-Romero M(2), Pastor J(3), Sola RG(3), Vega-Zelaya L(3),
Vega G(3), Monasterio F(3), Torrecilla C(3), Pulido P(3), Ortega GJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Neurocirugía de la Epilepsia, Instituto de Investigaciones Sanitaria
Hospital de la Princesa, C/Diego de León, 62, Madrid, Madrid, 28006, SPAIN.
(2)Instituto de Investigacion Sanitaria Hospital Universitario de la Princesa,
Madrid, SPAIN.
(3)Hospital Universitario de la Princesa, Madrid, Madrid, SPAIN.

OBJECTIVE: Sedation of neurocritically ill patients is one of the most
challenging situation in ICUs. Quantitative knowledge on the sedation effect on
brain activity in that complex scenario could help to uncover new markers for
sedation assessment. Hence, we aim to evaluate the existence of changes of
diverse EEG-derived measures in deeply-sedated (RASS -Richmond Agitation-Sedation
Scale- -4 and -5) neurocritically ill patients, and also whether sedation doses
are related with those eventual changes. &#13; Approach: We performed an
observational prospective cohort study in the Intensive Care Unit of the Hospital
de la Princesa. Twenty-six adult patients suffered from Traumatic Brain Injury
and Subarachnoid Hemorrhage were included in the present study. Long-term
continuous electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings (2141h) and hourly annotated 
information were used to determine the relationship between intravenous sedation 
infusion doses and network and spectral EEG measures. To do that, two different
strategies were followed: assessment of the statistical dependence between both
variables using the Spearman correlation rank and by performing an automatic
classification method based on a machine learning algorithm.&#13; Main results:
More than 60% of patients presented a correlation greater than 0.5 in at least
one of the calculated EEG measures with the sedation dose. The automatic
classification method presented an accuracy of 84.3% in discriminating between
different sedation doses. In both cases the nodes' degree was the most relevant
measurement.&#13; Significance: The results presented here provide evidences of
brain activity changes during deep sedation linked to sedation doses.
Particularly, the capability of network EEG-derived measures in discriminating
between different sedation doses could be the framework for the development of
accurate methods for sedation levels assessment.

© 2018 IOP Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1088/1741-2552/ab039f 
PMID: 30703765 


3. Phys Med Biol. 2019 Jan 31. doi: 10.1088/1361-6560/ab039b. [Epub ahead of print]

Three-dimensional radiotherapy dose prediction on head and neck cancer patients
with a hierarchically densely connected U-net deep learning architecture.

Nguyen D(1), Jia X(2), Sher D(3), Lin MH(4), Iqbal Z(5), Liu H(3), Jiang SB(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, UT Southwestern, 2280 Inwood Road, Dallas,
Texas, 75235, UNITED STATES.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, UT Southwestern Medical Center, 6363 Forest 
Park Rd. BL10.202G, MC9315, Dallas, Texas, 75390-9315, UNITED STATES.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas,
Texas, UNITED STATES.
(4)Radiation Oncology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas,
Dallas, Texas, UNITED STATES.
(5)Radiation Oncology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas,
Texas, UNITED STATES.
(6)Radiation Oncology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5801
Forest Park Rd., NE3.200, Dallas, Texas, 753090, UNITED STATES.

The treatment planning process for patients with head and neck (H&N) cancer is
regarded as one of the most complicated due to large target volume, multiple
prescription dose levels, and many radiation-sensitive critical structures near
the target. Treatment planning for this site requires a high level of human
expertise and a tremendous amount of effort to produce personalized high quality 
plans, taking as long as a week, which deteriorates the chances of tumor control 
and patient survival. To solve this problem, we propose to investigate a deep
learning-based dose prediction model, Hierarchically Densely Connected U-net,
based on two highly popular network architectures: U-net and DenseNet. We find
that this new architecture is able to accurately and efficiently predict the dose
distribution, outperforming the other two models, the Standard U-net and
DenseNet, in homogeneity, dose conformity, and dose coverage on the test data.
Averaging across all organs at risk, our proposed model is capable of predicting 
the organ-at-risk max dose within 6.3% and mean dose within 5.1% of the
prescription dose on the test data. The other models, the Standard U-net and
DenseNet, performed worse, having an averaged organ-at-risk max dose prediction
error of 8.2% and 9.3%, respectively, and averaged mean dose prediction error of 
6.4% and 6.8%, respectively. In addition, our proposed model used 12 times less
trainable parameters than the Standard U-net, and predicted the patient dose 4
times faster than DenseNet.

© 2018 Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1088/1361-6560/ab039b 
PMID: 30703760 


4. Health Place. 2019 Jan 28;56:53-62. doi: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2019.01.012. [Epub
ahead of print]

Measuring spatio-temporal accessibility to emergency medical services through big
GPS data.

Xia T(1), Song X(2), Zhang H(3), Song X(4), Kanasugi H(5), Shibasaki R(6).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Spatial Information Science, The University of Tokyo, Japan;
Artificial Intelligence Research Center, National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science and Technology, Japan. Electronic address:
xiatianqi@csis.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(2)Center for Spatial Information Science, The University of Tokyo, Japan;
Artificial Intelligence Research Center, National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science and Technology, Japan. Electronic address:
songxuan@csis.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(3)Center for Spatial Information Science, The University of Tokyo, Japan.
Electronic address: zhang_ronan@csis.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(4)Center for Spatial Information Science, The University of Tokyo, Japan;
Heilongjiang Cold Region Urban-Rural Human Settlements Science Key Laboratory,
School of Architecture, Harbin Institute of Technology, China. Electronic
address: song.xy@csis.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(5)Center for Spatial Information Science, The University of Tokyo, Japan.
Electronic address: yok@csis.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(6)Center for Spatial Information Science, The University of Tokyo, Japan.
Electronic address: shiba@csis.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

Medical accessibility is an important indicator for evaluating the effectiveness 
of public health services. However, the previous medical accessibility studies
mainly focus on spatial accessibility without considering temporal variation in
population distribution which is significant for evaluating access to emergency
medical service (EMS). This paper proposes a model of spatio-temporal
accessibility to EMS called ST-E2SFCA based on adapting the enhanced two-step
floating catchment area (E2SFCA) method. We apply our method to the greater Tokyo
area for a large volume of GPS dataset with millions of users and compare the
accessibility difference over space and time. To evaluate our model, we also
analyze the distinction of our model over different weight sets and compare the
performance of ST-E2SFCA with the traditional E2SFCA. The result shows that our
method can illustrate the temporal difference and is suitable for measuring the
spatio-temporal accessibility to EMS, thus can guide the hospital location
selection and urban planning.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2019.01.012 
PMID: 30703630 


5. Med Image Anal. 2019 Jan 18;53:64-78. doi: 10.1016/j.media.2019.01.005. [Epub
ahead of print]

Recurrent inference machines for reconstructing heterogeneous MRI data.

Lønning K(1), Putzky P(2), Sonke JJ(3), Reneman L(4), Caan MWA(5), Welling M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Spinoza Centre for Neuroimaging, Amsterdam 1105 BK, the Netherlands;
Informatics Institute at the University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam 1098 XH, the
Netherlands; Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam 1066 CX, the Netherlands.
Electronic address: k.lonning@nki.nl.
(2)Informatics Institute at the University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam 1098 XH, the
Netherlands; AMLab, Amsterdam, 1098 XH, the Netherlands.
(3)Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam 1066 CX, the Netherlands.
(4)Amsterdam UMC, Biomedical Engineering and Physics, University of Amsterdam,
Amsterdam 1105 AZ, the Netherlands.
(5)Spinoza Centre for Neuroimaging, Amsterdam 1105 BK, the Netherlands; Amsterdam
UMC, Biomedical Engineering and Physics, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam 1105 
AZ, the Netherlands.

Deep learning allows for accelerated magnetic resonance image (MRI)
reconstruction, thereby shortening measurement times. Rather than using
sparsifying transforms, a prerequisite in Compressed Sensing (CS), suitable MRI
prior distributions are learned from data. In clinical practice, both the
underlying anatomy as well as image acquisition settings vary. For this reason,
deep neural networks must be able to reapply what they learn across different
measurement conditions. We propose to use Recurrent Inference Machines (RIM) as a
framework for accelerated MRI reconstruction. RIMs solve inverse problems in an
iterative and recurrent inference procedure by repeatedly reassessing the state
of their reconstruction, and subsequently making incremental adjustments to it in
accordance with the forward model of accelerated MRI. RIMs learn the inferential 
process of reconstructing a given signal, which, in combination with the use of
internal states as part of their recurrent architecture, makes them less
dependent on learning the features pertaining to the source of the signal itself.
This gives RIMs a low tendency to overfit, and a high capacity to generalize to
unseen types of data. We demonstrate this ability with respect to anatomy by
reconstructing brain and knee scans, as well as other MRI acquisition settings,
by reconstructing scans of different contrast and resolution, at different field 
strength, subjected to varying acceleration levels. We show that RIMs outperform 
CS not only with respect to quality metrics, but also according to a rating given
by an experienced neuroradiologist in a double blinded experiment. Finally, we
show with qualitative results that our model can be applied to prospectively
under-sampled raw data, as acquired by pre-installed acquisition protocols.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.media.2019.01.005 
PMID: 30703579 


6. Med Phys. 2019 Jan 31. doi: 10.1002/mp.13412. [Epub ahead of print]

Validation of lesion simulations in clinical CT data for anonymized chest and
abdominal CT databases.

Robins M(1), Solomon J(1), Koweek LMH(2), Christensen J(3), Samei E(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Carl E. Ravin Advanced Imaging Laboratories, Department of Radiology, Duke
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, 27705.
(2)Carl E. Ravin Advanced Imaging Laboratories, Department of Radiology, Medical 
Physics Graduate Program, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina,
27705.
(3)Department of Radiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina, 27705.
(4)Carl E. Ravin Advanced Imaging Laboratories, Department of Radiology, Medical 
Physics Graduate Program.
(5)Departments of Biomedical Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering,
and Physics, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, 27705.

PURPOSE: To make available to the medical imaging community a computed tomography
(CT) image database composed of hybrid datasets (patient CT images with digitally
inserted anthropomorphic lesions) where lesion ground truth is known a priori. It
is envisioned that such a dataset could be a resource for the assessment of CT
image quality, machine learning, and imaging technologies (e.g., computer aided
detection (CAD) and segmentation algorithms).
ACQUISITION AND VALIDATION METHODS: This HIPPA compliant, IRB waiver of approval 
study consisted of utilizing 120 chest and 100 abdominal clinically acquired
adult CT exams. One image series per patient exam was utilized based on coverage 
of the anatomical region of interest (either the thorax or abdomen). All image
series were de-identified. Simulated lesions were derived from a library of
anatomically-informed digital lesions (93 lung and 50 liver lesions) where six
and four digital lesions with nominal diameters ranging from 4 to 20 mm were
inserted into lung and liver image series, respectively. Locations for lesion
insertion were randomly chosen. A previously validated lesion simulation and
virtual insertion technique were utilized. The resulting hybrid images were
reviewed by three experienced radiologists to assure similarity with routine
clinical imaging in a diverse adult population.
DATA FORMAT AND USAGE NOTES: The database is composed of four datasets that
contain 100 patient cases each, for a total of 400 image series accompanied by
Matlab .mat tables that provide descriptive information about the virtually
inserted lesions (i.e., size, shape, opacity, and insertion location in physical 
(world) coordinates and voxel indices). All image and meta-data are stored in
DICOM format on the Quantitative Imaging Data Warehouse
(https://qidw.rsna.org/#collection/57d463471cac0a4ec8ff8f46/folder/5b23dceb1cac0a
4ec800a770?dialog=login), in two sets: (1) QIBA CT Hybrid Dataset I which
contains Lung I and Liver I datasets, and (2) QIBA CT Hybrid Dataset II which
contains Lung II and Liver II datasets. The QIDW is supported by the Radiological
Society of North America (RSNA). Registration is required upon initial log in.
POTENTIAL APPLICATIONS: By simulating lesion opacity (full solid, part solid and 
ground glass), size, and texture, the relationship between lesion morphology and 
segmentation or CAD algorithm performance can be investigated without the need
for repetitive patient exams. This database can also serve as a reference
standard for device and reader performance studies. This article is protected by 
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1002/mp.13412 
PMID: 30703259 


7. PLoS One. 2019 Jan 31;14(1):e0211413. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0211413.
eCollection 2019.

Correlating exhaled aerosol images to small airway obstructive diseases: A study 
with dynamic mode decomposition and machine learning.

Xi J(1)(2), Zhao W(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, California Baptist University,
Riverside, California, United States of America.
(2)Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, California Baptist
University, Riverside, California, United States of America.
(3)Division of Bioinformatics and Biostatistics, National Center for
Toxicological Research, Jefferson, Arkansas, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Exhaled aerosols from lungs have unique patterns, and their variation
can be correlated to the underlying lung structure and associated abnormities.
However, it is challenging to characterize such aerosol patterns and
differentiate their difference because of their complexity. This challenge is
even greater for small airway diseases, where the disturbance signals are weak.
OBJECTIVES AND METHODS: The objective of this study is exploiting different
feature extraction algorithms to develop a practical classifier to diagnose
obstructive lung diseases using exhaled aerosol images. These include proper
orthogonal decomposition (POD), principal component analysis (PCA), dynamic mode 
decomposition (DMD), and DMD with control (DMDC). Aerosol images were generated
via physiology-based simulations in one normal and four diseased airway models in
G7-9 bronchioles. The image data were classified using both the support vector
machine (SVM) and random forest (RF) algorithms. The effectiveness of different
features was evaluated by classification accuracy and misclassification rate.
FINDINGS: Results show a significantly higher performance using dynamic feature
extractions (DMD and DMDC) than static algorithms (POD and PCA). Adding the
control variables to DMD further improved classification accuracy. Comparing the 
classification methods, RF persistently outperformed SVM for all types of
features considered. While the performance of RF constantly increased with the
number of features retained, the performance of SVM peaked at 50 and decreased
thereafter. The 5-class classification accuracy was 94.8% using the DMDC-RF model
and 93.0% using the DMD-RF model, both of which were higher than 87.0% in the
previous study that used fractal dimension features.
CONCLUSION: Considering that disease progression is inherently a dynamic process,
DMD(C)-based feature extraction preserves temporal information and is preferred
over POD and PCA. Compared with hand-crafted features like fractals, feature
extraction by DMD and DMDC is automatic and more accurate.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0211413 
PMID: 30703132 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


8. IEEE Trans Neural Netw Learn Syst. 2019 Jan 25. doi: 10.1109/TNNLS.2019.2891088. 
[Epub ahead of print]

An Accelerated Linearly Convergent Stochastic L-BFGS Algorithm.

Chang D, Sun S, Zhang C.

The limited memory version of the Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno (L-BFGS)
algorithm is the most popular quasi-Newton algorithm in machine learning and
optimization. Recently, it was shown that the stochastic L-BFGS (sL-BFGS)
algorithm with the variance-reduced stochastic gradient converges linearly. In
this paper, we propose a new sL-BFGS algorithm by importing a proper momentum. We
prove an accelerated linear convergence rate under mild conditions. The
experimental results on different data sets also verify this acceleration
advantage.

DOI: 10.1109/TNNLS.2019.2891088 
PMID: 30703047 


9. IEEE Trans Neural Netw Learn Syst. 2019 Jan 28. doi: 10.1109/TNNLS.2018.2876865. 
[Epub ahead of print]

Object Detection With Deep Learning: A Review.

Zhao ZQ, Zheng P, Xu ST, Wu X.

Due to object detection's close relationship with video analysis and image
understanding, it has attracted much research attention in recent years.
Traditional object detection methods are built on handcrafted features and
shallow trainable architectures. Their performance easily stagnates by
constructing complex ensembles that combine multiple low-level image features
with high-level context from object detectors and scene classifiers. With the
rapid development in deep learning, more powerful tools, which are able to learn 
semantic, high-level, deeper features, are introduced to address the problems
existing in traditional architectures. These models behave differently in network
architecture, training strategy, and optimization function. In this paper, we
provide a review of deep learning-based object detection frameworks. Our review
begins with a brief introduction on the history of deep learning and its
representative tool, namely, the convolutional neural network. Then, we focus on 
typical generic object detection architectures along with some modifications and 
useful tricks to improve detection performance further. As distinct specific
detection tasks exhibit different characteristics, we also briefly survey several
specific tasks, including salient object detection, face detection, and
pedestrian detection. Experimental analyses are also provided to compare various 
methods and draw some meaningful conclusions. Finally, several promising
directions and tasks are provided to serve as guidelines for future work in both 
object detection and relevant neural network-based learning systems.

DOI: 10.1109/TNNLS.2018.2876865 
PMID: 30703038 


10. IEEE Trans Neural Syst Rehabil Eng. 2019 Jan 25. doi: 10.1109/TNSRE.2019.2895064.
[Epub ahead of print]

Walking Imagery Evaluation in Brain Computer Interfaces via a New Deep Learning
Framework.

Lei B, Liu X, Liang S, Hang W, Wang Q, Choi KS, Qin J.

Brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) based on motor imagery (MI) have been widely
used to support the rehabilitation of motor functions of upper limbs rather than 
lower limbs. This is probably because it is more difficult to detect brain
activities of lower limb MI. In order to reliably detect the brain activities of 
lower limbs to restore or improve the walking ability of the disabled, we propose
a new paradigm of walking imagery (WI) in a virtual environment (VE) in order to 
elicit reliable brain activities and achieve a significant training effect.
First, we extract and fuse both spatial and time-frequency features as a
multi-view feature (MVF) to represent the patterns in the brain activity. Second,
we design a multi-view multi-level deep polynomial network (MMDPN) to explore the
complementarity among the features so as to improve the detection of walking from
an idle state. Our extensive experimental results show that the VE-based paradigm
significantly performs better than the traditional text-based paradigm. In
addition, the VE-based paradigm can effectively help users to modulate brain
activities and improve the quality of electroencephalography signals. We also
observe that the MMDPN outperforms other deep learning methods in terms of
classification performance.

DOI: 10.1109/TNSRE.2019.2895064 
PMID: 30703032 


11. IEEE Trans Neural Syst Rehabil Eng. 2019 Jan 25. doi: 10.1109/TNSRE.2019.2894914.
[Epub ahead of print]

Mining within-trial oscillatory brain dynamics to address the variability of
optimized spatial filters.

Meinel A, Kolkhorst H, Tangermann M.

Data-driven spatial filtering algorithms optimize scores such as the contrast
between two conditions to extract oscillatory brain signal components. Most
machine learning approaches for filter estimation, however, disregard
within-trial temporal dynamics and are extremely sensitive to changes in training
data and involved hyperparameters. This leads to highly variable solutions and
impedes the selection of a suitable candidate for, e.g., neurotechnological
applications. Fostering component introspection, we propose to embrace this
variability by condensing the functional signatures of a large set of oscillatory
components into homogeneous clusters, each representing specific within-trial
envelope dynamics. The proposed method is exemplified by and evaluated on a
complex hand force task with a rich within-trial structure. Based on
electroencephalography data of 18 healthy subjects, we found that the components'
distinct temporal envelope dynamics are highly subject-specific. On average, we
obtained seven clusters per subject, which were strictly confined regarding their
underlying frequency bands. As the analysis method is not limited to a specific
spatial filtering algorithm, it could be utilized for a wide range of
neurotechnological applications, e.g., to select and monitor functionally
relevant features for brain-computer interface protocols in stroke
rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1109/TNSRE.2019.2894914 
PMID: 30703030 


12. IEEE Trans Med Imaging. 2019 Jan 25. doi: 10.1109/TMI.2019.2895318. [Epub ahead
of print]

Prior Information Guided Regularized Deep Learning for Cell Nucleus Detection.

Tofighi M, Guo T, Vanamala JKP, Monga V.

Cell nuclei detection is a challenging research topic because of limitations in
cellular image quality and diversity of nuclear morphology, i.e. varying nuclei
shapes, sizes, and overlaps between multiple cell nuclei. This has been a topic
of enduring interest with promising recent success shown by deep learning
methods. These methods train Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) with a training
set of input images and known, labeled nuclei locations. Many such methods are
supplemented by spatial or morphological processing. Using a set of canonical
cell nuclei shapes, prepared with the help of a domain expert, we develop a new
approach that we call Shape Priors with Convolutional Neural Networks (SP-CNN).
We further extend the network to introduce a shape prior (SP) layer and then
allowing it to become trainable (i.e. optimizable). We call this network tunable 
SP-CNN (TSP-CNN). In summary, we present new network structures that can
incorporate 'expected behavior' of nucleus shapes via two components: learnable
layers that perform the nucleus detection and a fixed processing part that guides
the learning with prior information. Analytically, we formulate two new
regularization terms that are targeted at: 1) learning the shapes, 2) reducing
false positives while simultaneously encouraging detection inside the cell
nucleus boundary. Experimental results on two challenging datasets reveal that
the proposed SP-CNN and TSP-CNN can outperform state-of-the-art alternatives.

DOI: 10.1109/TMI.2019.2895318 
PMID: 30703016 


13. IEEE Trans Pattern Anal Mach Intell. 2019 Jan 28. doi:
10.1109/TPAMI.2019.2895793. [Epub ahead of print]

Joint Rain Detection and Removal from a Single Image with Contextualized Deep
Networks.

Yang W, Tan RT, Feng J, Liu J, Yan S, Guo Z.

Rain streaks, particularly in heavy rain, not only degrade visibility but also
make many computer vision algorithms fail to function properly. In this paper, we
address this visibility problem by focusing on single-image rain removal, even in
the presence of dense rain streaks and rain-streak accumulation, which is
visually similar to mist or fog. To achieve this, we introduce a new rain model
and a deep learning architecture. Our rain model incorporates a binary rain map
indicating rain-streak regions, and accommodates various shapes, directions, and 
sizes of overlapping rain streaks, as well as rain accumulation, to model heavy
rain. Based on this model, we construct a multi-task deep network, which jointly 
learns three targets: the binary rain-streak map, rain streak layers, and clean
background, which is our ultimate output. To generate features that can be
invariant to rain steaks, we introduce a contextual dilated network, which is
able to exploit regional contextual information. To handle various shapes and
directions of overlapping rain streaks, our strategy is to utilize a recurrent
process that progressively removes rain streaks. Our binary map provides a
constraint and thus additional information to train our network. Extensive
evaluation on real images, particularly in heavy rain, shows the effectiveness of
our model and architecture.

DOI: 10.1109/TPAMI.2019.2895793 
PMID: 30703011 


14. IEEE Trans Biomed Eng. 2019 Jan 28. doi: 10.1109/TBME.2019.2895663. [Epub ahead
of print]

Deep Neural Generative Model of Functional MRI Images for Psychiatric Disorder
Diagnosis.

Matsubara T, Tashiro T, Uehara K.

Accurate diagnosis of psychiatric disorders plays a critical role in improving
the quality of life for patients and potentially supports the development of new 
treatments. Many studies have been conducted on machine learning techniques that 
seek brain imaging data for specific biomarkers of disorders. These studies have 
encountered the following dilemma: An end-to-end classification overfits to a
small number of high-dimensional samples but unsupervised feature-extraction has 
the risk of extracting a signal of no interest. In addition, such studies often
provided only diagnoses for patients without presenting the reasons for these
diagnoses. This study proposed a deep neural generative model of resting-state
functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. The proposed model is
conditioned by the assumption of the subject's state and estimates the posterior 
probability of the subject's state given the imaging data, using Bayes' rule.
This study applied the proposed model to diagnose schizophrenia and bipolar
disorders. Diagnostic accuracy was improved by a large margin over competitive
approaches, namely classifications of functional connectivity and
discriminative/generative models of region-wise signals with or without
unsupervised feature-extractors. The proposed model visualizes brain regions
largely related to the disorders, thus motivating further biological
investigation.

DOI: 10.1109/TBME.2019.2895663 
PMID: 30703004 


15. Anal Chem. 2019 Jan 31. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.8b05820. [Epub ahead of print]

Comprehensive and empirical evaluation of machine learning algorithms for small
molecule LC retention time prediction.

Bouwmeester R, Martens L, Degroeve S.

Liquid chromatography is a core component of almost all mass spectrometric
analyses of (bio)molecules. Because of the high-throughput nature of mass
spectrometric analyses, the interpretation of these chromatographic data
increasingly relies on informatics solutions that attempt to predict an analyte's
retention time. The key components of such predictive algorithms are the features
these are supplies with, and the actual machine learning algorithm used to fit
the model parameters. Therefore, we have evaluated the performance of seven
machine learning algorithms on 36 distinct metabolomics data sets, using two
distinct feature sets. Interestingly, the results show that no single learning
algorithm performs optimally for all data sets, with different types of
algorithms achieving top performance for different types of analytes or different
protocols. Our results thus show that an evaluation of machine learning
algorithms for retention time prediction is needed to find a suitable algorithm
for specific analytes or protocols. Importantly, however, our results also show
that blending different types of models together decreases the error on outliers,
indicating that the combination of several approaches holds substantial promise
for the development of more generic, high-performing algorithms.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.8b05820 
PMID: 30702864 


16. Cancer Cytopathol. 2019 Jan 31. doi: 10.1002/cncy.22099. [Epub ahead of print]

Automating the Paris System for urine cytopathology-A hybrid deep-learning and
morphometric approach.

Vaickus LJ(1), Suriawinata AA(1), Wei JW(2), Liu X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical
Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire.
(2)Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon,
New Hampshire.

BACKGROUND: The Paris System for Urine Cytopathology (the Paris System) has
succeeded in making the analysis of liquid-based urine preparations more
reproducible. Any algorithm seeking to automate this system must accurately
estimate the nuclear-to-cytoplasmic (N:C) ratio and produce a qualitative "atypia
score." The authors propose a hybrid deep-learning and morphometric model that
reliably automates the Paris System.
METHODS: Whole-slide images (WSI) of liquid-based urine cytology specimens were
extracted from 51 negative, 60 atypical, 52 suspicious, and 54 positive cases.
Morphometric algorithms were applied to decompose images to their component
parts; and statistics, including the NC ratio, were tabulated using segmentation 
algorithms to create organized data structures, dubbed rich information matrices 
(RIMs). These RIM objects were enhanced using deep-learning algorithms to include
qualitative measures. The augmented RIM objects were then used to reconstruct
WSIs with filtering criteria and to generate pancellular statistical information.
RESULTS: The described system was used to calculate the N:C ratio for all cells, 
generate object classifications (atypical urothelial cell, squamous cell,
crystal, etc), filter the original WSI to remove unwanted objects, rearrange the 
WSI to an efficient, condensed-grid format, and generate pancellular statistics
containing quantitative/qualitative data for every cell in a WSI. In addition to 
developing novel techniques for managing WSIs, a system capable of automatically 
tabulating the Paris System criteria also was generated.
CONCLUSIONS: A hybrid deep-learning and morphometric algorithm was developed for 
the analysis of urine cytology specimens that could reliably automate the Paris
System and provide many avenues for increasing the efficiency of digital
screening for urine WSIs and other cytology preparations.

© 2019 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncy.22099 
PMID: 30702803 


17. Environ Mol Mutagen. 2019 Jan 31. doi: 10.1002/em.22274. [Epub ahead of print]

Predictions of Genotoxic Potential, Mode of Action, Molecular Targets, and
Potency via a Tiered MultiFlow® Assay Data Analysis Strategy.

Dertinger SD(1), Kraynak AR(2), Wheeldon RP(3), Bernacki DT(1), Bryce SM(1), Hall
N(1), Bemis JC(1), Galloway SM(2), Escobar PA(2), Johnson GE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Litron Laboratories, Rochester, NY, USA.
(2)Merck & Co., Inc., West Point, PA, USA.
(3)Institute of Life Science, Swansea University Medical School, Swansea
University, SA2 8PP Wales, United Kingdom.

The in vitro MultiFlow® DNA Damage Assay multiplexes γH2AX, p53, phospho-histone 
H3, and polyploidization biomarkers into a single flow cytometric analysis [Bryce
et al., 2016]. The current report describes a tiered, sequential data analysis
strategy based on data generated from exposure of human TK6 cells to a previously
described 85 chemical training set and a new pharmaceutical-centric test set
(n=40). In each case, exposure was continuous over a range of closely spaced
concentrations, and cell aliquots were removed for analysis following 4 and 24 hr
of treatment. The first data analysis step focused on chemicals' genotoxic
potential, and for this purpose we evaluated the performance of a machine
learning (ML) ensemble, a rubric that considered fold increases in biomarkers
against global evaluation factors (GEFs), and a hybrid strategy that considered
ML and GEFs. This first tier further used ML output and/or GEFs to classify
genotoxic activity as clastogenic and/or aneugenic. Test set results demonstrated
the generalizability of the first tier, with particularly good performance from
the ML ensemble: 35/40 (88%) concordance with a priori genotoxicity expectations 
and 21/24 (88%) agreement with expected mode of action (MoA). A second tier
applied unsupervised hierarchical clustering to the biomarker response data, and 
these analyses were found to group certain chemicals, especially aneugens,
according to their molecular targets. Finally, a third tier utilized benchmark
dose analyses and MultiFlow biomarker responses to rank genotoxic potency. The
relevance of these rankings is supported by the strong agreement found between
benchmark dose values derived from MultiFlow biomarkers compared to those
generated from parallel in vitro micronucleus analyses. Collectively, the results
suggest that a tiered MultiFlow data analysis pipeline is capable of rapidly and 
effectively identifying genotoxic hazards while providing additional information 
that is useful for modern risk assessments-MoA, molecular targets, and potency.
This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1002/em.22274 
PMID: 30702769 


18. Med Phys. 2019 Jan 31. doi: 10.1002/mp.13416. [Epub ahead of print]

Deeply Supervised 3D FCN with Group Dilated Convolution for Automatic MRI
Prostate Segmentation.

Bo W(1), Lei Y(1), Tian S(1), Wang T(1), Liu Y(1), Patel P(1), Jani AB(1), Mao
H(2), Curran WJ(1), Liu T(1), Yang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology and Winship Cancer Institute, Emory
University, Atlanta, GA, 30322.
(2)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences and Winship Cancer Institute,
Emory University, Atlanta, GA, 30322.

PURPOSE: Reliable automated segmentation of the prostate is indispensable for
image-guided prostate interventions. However, the segmentation task is
challenging due to inhomogeneous intensity distributions, variation in prostate
anatomy, among other problems. Manual segmentation can be time-consuming and is
subject to inter- and intra-observer variation. We developed an automated deep
learning-based method to address this technical challenge.
METHODS: We propose a 3D fully convolutional networks (FCN) with deep supervision
and group dilated convolution to segment the prostate on magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI). In this method, a deeply supervised mechanism was introduced into 
a 3D FCN to effectively alleviate the common exploding or vanishing gradients
problems in training deep models, which forces the update process of the hidden
layer filters to favor highly discriminative features. A group dilated
convolution which aggregates multi-scale contextual information for dense
prediction was proposed to enlarge the effective receptive field of convolutional
neural networks, which improve the prediction accuracy of prostate boundary. In
addition, we introduced a combined loss function including cosine and cross
entropy, which measures similarity and dissimilarity between segmented and manual
contours, to further improve the segmentation accuracy. Prostate volumes manually
segmented by experienced physicians were used as a gold standard against which
our segmentation accuracy was measured.
RESULTS: The proposed method was evaluated on an internal dataset comprising 40
T2-weighted prostate MR volumes. Our method achieved a Dice similarity
coefficient (DSC) of 0.86 ± 0.04, a mean surface distance (MSD) of 1.790.46 mm,
95% Hausdorff distance (95%HD) of 7.982.91 mm and absolute relative volume
difference (aRVD) of 15.6510.82. A public dataset (PROMISE12) including 50
T2-weighted prostate MR volumes was also employed to evaluate our approach. Our
method yielded a DSC of 0.88 ± 0.05, MSD of 1.02 ± 0.35 mm, 95% HD of 9.50 ±5.11 
mm and aRVD of 8.93 ±7.56.
CONCLUSION: We developed a novel deeply supervised deep learning-based approach
with a group dilated convolution to automatically segment the MRI prostate,
demonstrated its clinical feasibility, and validated its accuracy against manual 
segmentation. The proposed technique could be a useful tool for image-guided
interventions in prostate cancer. This article is protected by copyright. All
rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1002/mp.13416 
PMID: 30702759 


19. JMIR Res Protoc. 2019 Jan 31;8(1):e11540. doi: 10.2196/11540.

Investigating Intervention Components and Exploring States of Receptivity for a
Smartphone App to Promote Physical Activity: Protocol of a Microrandomized Trial.

Kramer JN(1), Künzler F(2), Mishra V(3), Presset B(4), Kotz D(3)(5), Smith
S(6)(7), Scholz U(8), Kowatsch T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Digital Health Interventions, Institute of Technology Management,
University of St. Gallen, St. Gallen, Switzerland.
(2)Center for Digital Health Interventions, Department of Management, Technology 
and Economics, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, United States.
(4)Institute of Sports Studies, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(5)Center for Technology and Behavioral Health, Geisel School of Medicine at
Dartmouth, Lebanon, NH, United States.
(6)Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor, 
MI, United States.
(7)Medical School, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor, MI, United
States.
(8)Department of Psychology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Smartphones enable the implementation of just-in-time adaptive
interventions (JITAIs) that tailor the delivery of health interventions over time
to user- and time-varying context characteristics. Ideally, JITAIs include
effective intervention components, and delivery tailoring is based on effective
moderators of intervention effects. Using machine learning techniques to infer
each user's context from smartphone sensor data is a promising approach to
further enhance tailoring.
OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of this study is to quantify main effects,
interactions, and moderators of 3 intervention components of a smartphone-based
intervention for physical activity. The secondary objective is the exploration of
participants' states of receptivity, that is, situations in which participants
are more likely to react to intervention notifications through collection of
smartphone sensor data.
METHODS: In 2017, we developed the Assistant to Lift your Level of activitY
(Ally), a chatbot-based mobile health intervention for increasing physical
activity that utilizes incentives, planning, and self-monitoring prompts to help 
participants meet personalized step goals. We used a microrandomized trial design
to meet the study objectives. Insurees of a large Swiss insurance company were
invited to use the Ally app over a 12-day baseline and a 6-week intervention
period. Upon enrollment, participants were randomly allocated to either a
financial incentive, a charity incentive, or a no incentive condition. Over the
course of the intervention period, participants were repeatedly randomized on a
daily basis to either receive prompts that support self-monitoring or not and on 
a weekly basis to receive 1 of 2 planning interventions or no planning.
Participants completed a Web-based questionnaire at baseline and postintervention
follow-up.
RESULTS: Data collection was completed in January 2018. In total, 274 insurees
(mean age 41.73 years; 57.7% [158/274] female) enrolled in the study and
installed the Ally app on their smartphones. Main reasons for declining
participation were having an incompatible smartphone (37/191, 19.4%) and
collection of sensor data (35/191, 18.3%). Step data are available for 227
(82.8%, 227/274) participants, and smartphone sensor data are available for 247
(90.1%, 247/274) participants.
CONCLUSIONS: This study describes the evidence-based development of a JITAI for
increasing physical activity. If components prove to be efficacious, they will be
included in a revised version of the app that offers scalable promotion of
physical activity at low cost.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03384550;
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03384550 (Archived by WebCite at
http://www.webcitation.org/74IgCiK3d).
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/11540.

©Jan-Niklas Kramer, Florian Künzler, Varun Mishra, Bastien Presset, David Kotz,
Shawna Smith, Urte Scholz, Tobias Kowatsch. Originally published in JMIR Research
Protocols (http://www.researchprotocols.org), 31.01.2019.

DOI: 10.2196/11540 
PMID: 30702430 


20. Int J Sports Physiol Perform. 2019 Jan 31:1-25. doi: 10.1123/ijspp.2017-0864.
[Epub ahead of print]

Predicting Future Perceived Wellness in Professional Soccer: The Role of
Preceding Load and Wellness.

Jaspers A(1), De Beéck TO(2), Brink MS(3), Frencken WGP(3), Staes F(4), Davis
JJ(2), Helsen WF(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 KU Leuven, Department of Movement Sciences, Movement Control and
Neuroplasticity Research Group, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)2 KU Leuven, Department of Computer Science, Leuven, Belgium.
(3)3 Center for Human Movement Sciences, University of Groningen, University
Medical Center, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(4)4 KU Leuven, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Musculoskeletal
Rehabilitation Research Group, Leuven, Belgium.

PURPOSE:: The influence of preceding load and perceived wellness on the future
perceived wellness of professional soccer players is unexamined. This paper
simultaneously evaluates the external and internal load for different time frames
in combination with pre-session wellness to predict future perceived wellness
using machine learning techniques.
METHODS:: Training and match data were collected from a professional soccer team.
The external load was measured using global positioning system technology and
accelerometry. The internal load was obtained using the RPE multiplied by
duration. Predictive models were constructed using gradient boosted regression
trees (GBRT) and one naive baseline method. The individual predictions of future 
wellness items (i.e., fatigue, sleep quality, general muscle soreness, stress
levels, and mood) were based on a set of external and internal load indicators in
combination with pre-session wellness. The external and internal load was
computed for acute and cumulative time frames. The GBRT model's performance on
predicting the reported future wellness was compared to the naive baseline's
performance by means of absolute prediction error and effect size.
RESULTS:: The GBRT model outperformed the baseline for the wellness items
fatigue, general muscle soreness, stress levels and mood. Additionally, only the 
combination of external load, internal load, and pre-session perceived wellness
resulted in non-trivial effects for predicting future wellness. Including the
cumulative load did not improve the predictive performances.
CONCLUSIONS:: The findings may indicate the importance of including both acute
load and pre-session perceived wellness in a broad monitoring approach in
professional soccer.

DOI: 10.1123/ijspp.2017-0864 
PMID: 30702339 


21. Anat Sci Educ. 2019 Jan 31. doi: 10.1002/ase.1866. [Epub ahead of print]

Neuroanatomy, the Achille's heel of medical students. A systematic analysis of
educational strategies for the teaching of neuroanatomy.

Sotgiu MA(1), Mazzarello V(1), Bandiera P(1), Madeddu R(1), Montella A(1), Moxham
B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Surgery, University
of Sassari, Sassari, Italy.
(2)Cardiff School of Biosciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff, Wales, United
Kingdom.

Neuroanatomy has been deemed crucial for clinical neurosciences. It has been one 
of the most challenging parts of the anatomical curriculum and is one of the
causes of "neurophobia", whose main implication is a negative influence on the
choice of neurology in the near future. In the last decades, several educational 
strategies have been identified to improve the skills of students and to promote 
a deep learning. The aim of this study was to systematically review the
literature to identify the most effective method/s to teach human neuroanatomy.
The search was restricted to publications written in English language and to
articles describing teaching tools in undergraduate medical courses from January 
2006 through December 2017. The primary outcome was the observation of
improvement of anatomical knowledge in undergraduate medical students. Secondary 
outcomes were the amelioration of long-term retention knowledge and the grade of 
satisfaction of students. Among 18 selected studies, 44.4% have used
three-dimensional (3D) teaching tools, 16.6% near peer teaching tool, 5.55%
flipped classroom tool, 5.55% applied neuroanatomy elective course, 5.55%
equivalence-based instruction-rote learning, 5.55% mobile augmented reality,
5.55% inquiry-based clinical case, 5.55% cadaver dissection, and 5.55% Twitter.
The high in-between study heterogeneity was the main issue to identify the most
helpful teaching tool to improve neuroanatomical knowledge among medical
students. Data from this study suggest that a combination of multiple pedagogical
resources seems to be the more advantageous for teaching neuroanatomy. This
article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1002/ase.1866 
PMID: 30702219 


22. J Am Chem Soc. 2019 Jan 31. doi: 10.1021/jacs.8b13420. [Epub ahead of print]

Learning-in-Templates Enables Accelerated Discovery and Synthesis of New Stable
Double-Perovskites.

Askerka M, Li Z, Lempen M, Liu Y, Johnston A, Saidaminov MI, Zajacz Z, Sargent
EH.

In the past three years, Machine Learning (ML) in combination with Density
Functional Theory (DFT) has enabled computational screening of compounds with the
goal of accelerated materials discovery. Unfortunately, DFT+ML has, until now,
either relied on knowledge of the atomic positions at DFT energy minima, which
are a priori unknown, or has been limited to chemical spaces of modest size. Here
we report a strategy that we term Learning-in-Templates (LiT) wherein we first
define a series of space group and stoichiometry templates corresponding to
hypothesized compounds and, orthogonally, we allow any list of atoms to take on
any template. The LiT approach is deployed in combination with
previously-established position-dependent representations and performs best with 
the representations that rely least on the atomic positions. Since the positions 
of the atoms in templates are known and do not change, LiT enables us to infer
the properties of interest directly; additionally, LiT allows working with
increased chemical spaces, since the same elements can take on a large number of 
templates. Only by using LiT were we able to span a 5x106 double perovskite
compounds and achieve an acceleration factor of 700 compared to brute-force DFT, 
allowing us to predict never-before-screened compounds. Our findings motivated us
to synthesize a new BaCuyTa(1-y)S3 perovskite which we show using an Electron
Probe Microanalyzer has a 5:3 molar ratio of Cu to Ta, and using powder X-ray
Diffraction (XRD) analysis combined with a DFT-based XRD simulation and fitting
indicate a new phase having a I4/m space group.

DOI: 10.1021/jacs.8b13420 
PMID: 30701964 


23. J Biomed Opt. 2019 Jan;24(1):1-9. doi: 10.1117/1.JBO.24.1.016002.

Hyperspectral imaging for tissue classification, a way toward smart laparoscopic 
colorectal surgery.

Baltussen EJM(1), Kok END(1), Brouwer de Koning SG(1), Sanders J(2), Aalbers
AGJ(1), Kok NFM(1), Beets GL(1), Flohil CC(3), Bruin SC(4), Kuhlmann KFD(1),
Sterenborg HJCM(1)(5), Ruers TJM(1)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Department 
of Surgery, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Department 
of Pathology, Amsterda, The Netherlands.
(3)Slotervaart Medical Centre, Department of Pathology, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.
(4)Slotervaart Medical Centre, Department of Surgery, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Amsterdam University Medical Centre, University of Amsterdam, Department of
Biomedical Engineering a, The Netherlands.
(6)Technical University Twente, MIRA Institute, Enschede, The Netherlands.

In the last decades, laparoscopic surgery has become the gold standard in
patients with colorectal cancer. To overcome the drawback of reduced tactile
feedback, real-time tissue classification could be of great benefit. In this ex
vivo study, hyperspectral imaging (HSI) was used to distinguish tumor tissue from
healthy surrounding tissue. A sample of fat, healthy colorectal wall, and tumor
tissue was collected per patient and imaged using two hyperspectral cameras,
covering the wavelength range from 400 to 1700 nm. The data were randomly divided
into a training (75%) and test (25%) set. After feature reduction, a quadratic
classifier and support vector machine were used to distinguish the three tissue
types. Tissue samples of 32 patients were imaged using both hyperspectral
cameras. The accuracy to distinguish the three tissue types using both
hyperspectral cameras was 0.88 (STD  =  0.13) on the test dataset. When the
accuracy was determined per patient, a mean accuracy of 0.93 (STD  =  0.12) was
obtained on the test dataset. This study shows the potential of using HSI in
colorectal cancer surgery for fast tissue classification, which could improve
clinical outcome. Future research should be focused on imaging entire
colon/rectum specimen and the translation of the technique to an intraoperative
setting.

(2019) COPYRIGHT Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE).

DOI: 10.1117/1.JBO.24.1.016002 
PMID: 30701726 


24. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2019 Jan 30. doi: 10.1002/jmri.26674. [Epub ahead of print]

Transition zone prostate cancer: Logistic regression and machine-learning models 
of quantitative ADC, shape and texture features are highly accurate for
diagnosis.

Wu M(1), Krishna S(2), Thornhill RE(1), Flood TA(3), McInnes MDF(1), Schieda
N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Imaging, Ottawa Hospital, University of Ottawa, Ontario,
Canada.
(2)Joint Department of Medical Imaging, University Health Network, Mount Sinai
Hospital, Women's College Hospital, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Anatomical Pathology, Ottawa Hospital, University of Ottawa,
Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The limitation of diagnosis of transition zone (TZ) prostate cancer
(PCa) using subjective assessment of multiparametric (mp) MRI with PI-RADS v2 is 
related to overlapping features between cancers and stromal benign prostatic
hyperplasia (BPH) nodules, particularly in small lesions.
PURPOSE: To evaluate modeling of quantitative apparent diffusion coefficient
(ADC), texture, and shape features using logistic regression (LR) and support
vector machine (SVM) models for the diagnosis of transition zone PCa.
STUDY TYPE: Retrospective.
POPULATION: Ninety patients; 44 consecutive TZ PCa were compared with 61
consecutive BPH nodules (26 glandular/35 stromal).
FIELD STRENGTH/SEQUENCE: 3 T/T2 -weighted (T2 W) fast spin-echo, diffusion
weighted imaging.
ASSESSMENT: A radiologist manually segmented lesions on axial images for
quantitative ADC (mean, 10th , 25th -centile-ADC), T2 W-shape (circularity,
convexity) and T2 W-texture (kurtosis, skewness, entropy, run-length
nonuniformity [RLNU], gray-level nonuniformity [GLNU]) analysis. A second
radiologist segmented one-fifth of randomly selected lesions to determine the
reproducibility of measurements. The reference standard was histopathology for
all lesions.
STATISTICAL TESTS: Quantitative features were selected a priori and were compared
using univariate and multivariate analysis. LR and SVM models of statistically
significant features were constructed and evaluated using receiver operator
characteristic (ROC) analysis. Subgroup analysis of TZ PCa vs. only stromal BPH
and in lesions measuring <15 mm was performed. Agreement in measurements was
assessed using the Dice similarity coefficient (DSC).
RESULTS: Mean, 25th and 10th -centile ADC, circularity, and texture (entropy,
RLNU, GLNU) features differed between groups (P < 0.0001-0.0058); however, at
multivariate analysis only circularity and ADC metrics (P < 0.001) remained
significant. LR and SVM models were highly accurate for the diagnosis of TZ PCa
(sensitivity/specificity/AUC): 93.2%/98.4%/0.989 and 93.2%/96.7%/0.949,
respectively, with no significance difference between the LR and SVM models
(P = 0.2271). Reproducibility of segmentation was excellent (DSC 0.84 tumors and 
0.87 BPH). Subgroup analyses of TZ PCa vs. stromal BPH (AUC = 0.976) and in
<15 mm lesions (AUC = 0.990) remained highly accurate.
DATA CONCLUSION: LR and SVM models incorporating previously described
quantitative ADC, shape and texture analysis features are highly accurate for the
diagnosis of TZ PCa and remained accurate when comparing TZ PCa with stromal BPH 
and in smaller lesions.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 3 Technical Efficacy: Stage 2 J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2019.

© 2019 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.26674 
PMID: 30701625 


25. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2019 Jan 30. doi: 10.1002/jmri.26658. [Epub ahead of print]

Water-fat separation and parameter mapping in cardiac MRI via deep learning with 
a convolutional neural network.

Goldfarb JW(1), Craft J(1), Cao JJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Research and Education, Saint Francis Hospital, Roslyn, New
York, USA.

BACKGROUND: Water-fat separation is a postprocessing technique most commonly
applied to multiple-gradient-echo magnetic resonance (MR) images to identify fat,
provide images with fat suppression, and to measure fat tissue concentration.
Recently, Numerous advancements have been reported. In contrast to early methods,
the process of water-fat separation has become complicated due to multiparametric
analytic models, optimization methods, and the absence of a unified framework for
diverse source data.
PURPOSE: To determine the feasibility and performance of MRI water-fat separation
and parametric mapping via deep learning (DL) with a range of inputs.
STUDY TYPE: Retrospective data usage.
POPULATION/SUBJECTS: Ninety cardiac MR examinations from normal control, acute,
subacute, and chronic myocardial infarction subjects were obtained, providing
1200 multiple gradient-echo acquisitions.
FIELD STRENGTH/SEQUENCE: 1.5 T/2D multiple gradient-echo pulse sequence
ASSESSMENT: Ground-truth training and validation water-fat separation were
obtained using a graph cut method with R2 *, off-resonance correction, and a
multipeak fat spectrum. U-Net DL training with single and multiecho, complex, and
magnitude inputs were compared using quantitative and three-observer subjective
analysis.
STATISTICAL TESTS: DL methods' image structural similarity, and quantitative
proton density fat fraction (PDFF), R2 *, and off-resonance quantitative values
were statistically compared with the GraphCut reference standard using Student's 
t-test and Pearson's correlation.
RESULTS: Myocardial fat deposition in chronic myocardial infarction and
intramyocardial hemorrhage in acute myocardial infarction were well visualized in
the DL results. Predicted values for R2 *, off-resonance, water, and fat signal
intensities were well correlated with a conventional model-based water fat
separation (R2 ≥ 0.97, P < 0.001) with appropriate inputs. DL parameter maps had 
a 14% higher signal-to-noise ratio (P < 0.001) when compared with a conventional 
method.
DATA CONCLUSION: DL water-fat separation is feasible with a wide range of inputs,
while R2 * and off-resonance mapping requires multiple echoes and complex images.
With appropriate inputs, DL provides quantitative and subjective results
comparable to conventional model-based methods.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 1 Technical Efficacy Stage: 1 J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2019.

© 2019 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.26658 
PMID: 30701621 


26. Stat Med. 2019 Jan 30. doi: 10.1002/sim.8103. [Epub ahead of print]

Evaluating classification accuracy for modern learning approaches.

Li J(1)(2)(3), Gao M(4)(5), D'Agostino R(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Statistics and Applied Probability, National University of
Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Duke University-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore.
(3)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore.
(4)Department of Mathematics, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Statistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
(6)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Boston University, Boston,
Massachusetts.

Deep learning neural network models such as multilayer perceptron (MLP) and
convolutional neural network (CNN) are novel and attractive artificial
intelligence computing tools. However, evaluation of the performance of these
methods is not readily available for practitioners yet. We provide a tutorial for
evaluating classification accuracy for various state-of-the-art learning
approaches, including familiar shallow and deep learning methods. For qualitative
response variables with more than two categories, many traditional accuracy
measures such as sensitivity, specificity, and area under the receiver operating 
characteristic curve are not applicable and we have to consider their extensions 
properly. In this paper, a few important statistical concepts for multicategory
classification accuracy are reviewed and their utilities for various learning
algorithms are demonstrated with real medical examples. We offer problem-based R 
code to illustrate how to perform these statistical computations step by step. We
expect that such analysis tools will become more familiar to practitioners and
receive broader applications in biostatistics.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.8103 
PMID: 30701585 


27. Methods Mol Biol. 2019;1932:89-97. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-9042-9_6.

miRLocator: A Python Implementation and Web Server for Predicting miRNAs from
Pre-miRNA Sequences.

Zhang T(1)(2), Ju L(3), Zhai J(1)(2), Song Y(3), Song J(1)(4), Ma C(5)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Stress Biology for Arid Areas, Center of
Bioinformatics, College of Life Sciences, Northwest A&F University, Yangling,
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Biology and Genetics Improvement of Maize in Arid Area of
Northwest Region, Ministry of Agriculture, Northwest A&F University, Yangling,
China.
(3)College of Information Engineering, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, China.
(4)Biomass Energy Center for Arid and Semi-arid Lands, Northwest A&F University, 
Yangling, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Crop Stress Biology for Arid Areas, Center of
Bioinformatics, College of Life Sciences, Northwest A&F University, Yangling,
China. chuangma2006@gmail.com.
(6)Key Laboratory of Biology and Genetics Improvement of Maize in Arid Area of
Northwest Region, Ministry of Agriculture, Northwest A&F University, Yangling,
China. chuangma2006@gmail.com.
(7)Biomass Energy Center for Arid and Semi-arid Lands, Northwest A&F University, 
Yangling, China. chuangma2006@gmail.com.

microRNAs (miRNAs) are short, noncoding regulatory RNAs derived from hairpin
precursors (pre-miRNAs). In synergy with experimental approaches, computational
approaches have become an invaluable tool for identifying miRNAs at the genome
scale. We have recently reported a method called miRLocator, which applies
machine learning algorithms to accurately predict the localization of most likely
miRNAs within their pre-miRNAs. One major strength of miRLocator is the fact that
the machine learning-based miRNA prediction model can be automatically trained
using a set of miRNAs of particular interest, with informative features extracted
from miRNA-miRNA* duplexes and the optimized ratio between positive and negative 
samples. Here, we present a detailed protocol for miRLocator that performs the
training and prediction processes using a python implementation and web
interface. The source codes, web interface, and manual documents are freely
available to academic users at https://github.com/cma2015/miRLocator .

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-9042-9_6 
PMID: 30701493 


28. Sci Eng Ethics. 2019 Jan 30. doi: 10.1007/s11948-019-00084-5. [Epub ahead of
print]

Building Moral Robots: Ethical Pitfalls and Challenges.

Gordon JS(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Philosophy and Social Critique, Faculty of Political Science and
Diplomacy, Vytautas Magnus University, V. Putvinskio g. 23 (R 403), 44243,
Kaunas, Lithuania. jostgo76@gmail.com.
(2)Research Cluster for Applied Ethics, Faculty of Law, Vytautas Magnus
University, V. Putvinskio g. 23 (R 403), 44243, Kaunas, Lithuania.
jostgo76@gmail.com.

This paper examines the ethical pitfalls and challenges that non-ethicists, such 
as researchers and programmers in the fields of computer science, artificial
intelligence and robotics, face when building moral machines. Whether ethics is
"computable" depends on how programmers understand ethics in the first place and 
on the adequacy of their understanding of the ethical problems and methodological
challenges in these fields. Researchers and programmers face at least two types
of problems due to their general lack of ethical knowledge or expertise. The
first type is so-called rookie mistakes, which could be addressed by providing
these people with the necessary ethical knowledge. The second, more difficult
methodological issue concerns areas of peer disagreement in ethics, where no easy
solutions are currently available. This paper examines several existing
approaches to highlight the ethical pitfalls and challenges involved. Familiarity
with these and similar problems can help programmers to avoid pitfalls and build 
better moral machines. The paper concludes that ethical decisions regarding moral
robots should be based on avoiding what is immoral (i.e. prohibiting certain
immoral actions) in combination with a pluralistic ethical method of solving
moral problems, rather than relying on a particular ethical approach, so as to
avoid a normative bias.

DOI: 10.1007/s11948-019-00084-5 
PMID: 30701408 


29. Cogn Process. 2019 Jan 30. doi: 10.1007/s10339-019-00904-3. [Epub ahead of print]

A unifying computational model of decision making.

Kirsch A(1).

Author information: 
(1), Stuttgart, Germany. ak@alexkirsch.de.

Decision making has long been of interest as a descriptive phenomenon in
psychology and as a generative one in artificial intelligence. Research ranges
from general, descriptive models of heuristic decision making to detailed studies
of decision parameters. This paper introduces a model that formalizes and
integrates several descriptive models so that it can serve both as a framework
for psychological models and as an algorithm for computational decision making.
We set special focus on the instantiation of this model with respect to
aggregating cue values by reviewing some methods from the field of computational 
social choice. To show its applicability in the context of artificial
intelligence we present a case study of computational problem solving.

DOI: 10.1007/s10339-019-00904-3 
PMID: 30701371 


30. Quant Imaging Med Surg. 2018 Dec;8(11):1113-1120. doi: 10.21037/qims.2018.12.04.

Discrimination of smoking status by MRI based on deep learning method.

Wang S(1), Zhang R(2), Deng Y(2), Chen K(2), Xiao D(3)(4), Peng P(1), Jiang T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Beijing Chaoyang Hospital, Capital Medical
University, Beijing 10020, China.
(2)Infervision, Beijing 10021, China.
(3)Tobacco Medicine and Tobacco Cessation Center, China-Japan Friendship
Hospital, Beijing 100029, China.
(4)WHO Collaborating Center for Tobacco Cessation and Respiratory Diseases
Prevention, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Beijing 100029, China.

Background: This study aimed to assess the feasibility of deep learning-based
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the prediction of smoking status.
Methods: The head MRI 3D-T1WI images of 127 subjects (61 smokers and 66
non-smokers) were collected, and 176 image slices obtained for each subject.
These subjects were 23-45 years old, and the smokers had at least 5 years of
smoking experience. Approximate 25% of the subjects were randomly selected as the
test set (15 smokers and 16 non-smokers), and the remaining subjects as the
training set. Two deep learning models were developed: deep 3D convolutional
neural network (Conv3D) and convolution neural network plus a recurrent neural
network (RNN) with long short-term memory architecture (ConvLSTM).
Results: In the prediction of smoking status, Conv3D model achieved an accuracy
of 80.6% (25/31), a sensitivity of 80.0% and a specificity of 81.3%, and ConvLSTM
model achieved an accuracy of 93.5% (29/31), a sensitivity of 93.33% and a
specificity of 93.75%. The accuracy obtained by these methods was significantly
higher than that (<70%) obtained with support vector machine (SVM) methods.
Conclusions: The deep learning-based MRI can accurately predict smoking status.
Studies with large sample size are needed to improve the accuracy and to predict 
the level of nicotine dependence.

DOI: 10.21037/qims.2018.12.04 
PMCID: PMC6328383
PMID: 30701165 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have no
conflicts of interest to declare.


31. PeerJ. 2019 Jan 25;7:e6257. doi: 10.7717/peerj.6257. eCollection 2019.

A scalable discrete-time survival model for neural networks.

Gensheimer MF(1), Narasimhan B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, United
States of America.
(2)Department of Statistics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, United States of 
America.

There is currently great interest in applying neural networks to prediction tasks
in medicine. It is important for predictive models to be able to use survival
data, where each patient has a known follow-up time and event/censoring
indicator. This avoids information loss when training the model and enables
generation of predicted survival curves. In this paper, we describe a
discrete-time survival model that is designed to be used with neural networks,
which we refer to as Nnet-survival. The model is trained with the maximum
likelihood method using mini-batch stochastic gradient descent (SGD). The use of 
SGD enables rapid convergence and application to large datasets that do not fit
in memory. The model is flexible, so that the baseline hazard rate and the effect
of the input data on hazard probability can vary with follow-up time. It has been
implemented in the Keras deep learning framework, and source code for the model
and several examples is available online. We demonstrate the performance of the
model on both simulated and real data and compare it to existing models Cox-nnet 
and Deepsurv.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.6257 
PMCID: PMC6348952
PMID: 30701130 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing
interests.


32. Proc Annu Hawaii Int Conf Syst Sci. 2019 Jan 8;2019:3917-3925.

The Feasibility and Acceptability of a Smartphone-Based Music Intervention for
Acute Pain.

Chai PR(1), Schreiber KL(2), Taylor SW(3), Jambaulikar GD(4), Kikut A(5),
Hasdianda MA(6), Boyer EW(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, The Fenway
Institute, pchai@bwh.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Anesthesia, Perioperative, and Pain Medicine, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, klschreiber@bwh.harvard.edu.
(3)Boston University, The Fenway Institute, wtaylor@fenwayhealth.org.
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
gjambaulikar@bwh.harvard.edu.
(5)Department of Emergency Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
akikut@bwh.harvard.edu.
(6)Department of Emergency Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
mhasdianda@bwh.harvard.edu.
(7)Department of Emergency Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, The Fenway
Institute, eboyer@bwh.harvard.edu.

Pain is an unpleasant experience the neurobiology of which is influenced by
psychosocial factors including negative affect. Music is a ubiquitous experience 
that can improve affect, potentially decreasing anxiety and catastrophizing, both
of which are associated with greater pain severity. We hypothesized that a
machine-learning generative music intervention in the form of a smartphone web
app (Unwind) could be used to modulate the experience of pain. In this pilot
study, we recruited 15 individuals with acute pain who were admitted to an
observation unit in the emergency department, and were being treated with
opioids. Participants used the music intervention (Unwind) during this brief
hospitalization, after which we assessed their response to its use through a
semi-structured qualitative interview. Overall, participants responded positively
to Unwind. While some reported some technical challenges, participants were
willing to continue using it at home. In particular, participants reported using 
Unwind to address their anxiety, and many used it to facilitate sleep in the
presence of pain. This study demonstrates that individuals with acute pain will
accept and use a smartphone-based music protocol.


PMID: 30700971 


33. J Virol. 2019 Jan 30. pii: JVI.01790-18. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01790-18. [Epub ahead
of print]

Identification of NK cell subpopulations that differentiate HIV-infected subject 
cohorts with diverse level of virus control.

Pohlmeyer CW(1), Gonzalez VD(2), Irrinki A(1), Ramirez RN(1), Li L(1), Mulato
A(1), Murry JP(1), Arvey A(1), Hoh R(3), Deeks SG(3), Kukolj G(1), Cihlar T(1),
Pflanz S(1), Nolan GP(2), Min-Oo G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Gilead Sciences, Inc., Foster City, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Baxter Laboratory in Stem Cell
Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(3)Division of HIV, Infectious Diseases and Global Medicine, University of
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)Gilead Sciences, Inc., Foster City, CA, USA gundula.min-oo@gilead.com.

HIV infection is controlled immunologically in a small subset of infected
individuals without antiretroviral therapy (ART), though the mechanism of control
is unclear. CD8+ T cells are a critical component of HIV control in many
immunologic controllers. NK cells are also believed to have a role in controlling
HIV infection, though their role is less well-characterized. We used mass
cytometry to simultaneously measure expression of 24 surface markers on
peripheral NK cells from HIV-infected subjects with varying degrees of HIV
natural control; we then used machine learning to identify NK cell subpopulations
that differentiate HIV controllers from non-controllers. Using CITRUS (Cluster
identification, characterization, and regression), we identified 3 NK cell
subpopulations that differentiated subjects with chronic HIV viremia (Viremic
Non-Controllers, VNC) from individuals with undetectable HIV viremia without ART 
(Elite Controllers, EC). In a parallel approach, we identified 11 NK cell
subpopulations that differentiated HIV-infected subject groups using k-means
clustering after dimensionality reduction by t-neighbor Stochastic Neighbor
Embedding (tSNE) or Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA). Of these additional 11
subpopulations, the frequencies of 5 correlated with HIV DNA levels; importantly,
significance was retained in 2 subpopulations when only including cohorts without
detectable viremia. By comparing the surface marker expression patterns of all
identified subpopulations, we revealed that the CD11b+CD57-CD161+Siglec-7+
subpopulation of CD56dimCD16+ NK cells are more abundant in EC and HIV-negative
controls compared to VNC, and the frequency of these cells correlated with HIV
DNA levels. We hypothesize that this population may have a role in immunologic
control of HIV infection.Importance:HIV infection results in the establishment of
a stable reservoir of latently infected cells; ART is usually required to keep
viral replication in control and disease progression at bay, though a small
subset of HIV-infected subjects can control HIV infection without ART through
immunological mechanisms. In this study, we sought to identify subpopulations of 
NK cells that may be involved in the natural immunological control of HIV
infection. We used mass cytometry to measure surface marker expression on
peripheral NK cells. Using two distinct semi-supervised machine learning
approaches, we identified a CD11b+CD57-CD161+Siglec-7+ subpopulation of
CD56dimCD16+ NK cells that differentiates HIV controllers from non-controllers.
These cells can be sorted out for future functional studies to assess their
potential role in the immunologic control of HIV infection.

Copyright © 2019 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01790-18 
PMID: 30700608 


34. J Neurosci. 2019 Jan 30. pii: 2842-18. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2842-18.2019. [Epub
ahead of print]

Subthalamic nucleus and sensorimotor cortex activity during speech production.

Chrabaszcz A(1), Neumann WJ(2), Stretcu O(3), Lipski WJ(4), Bush A(4)(5),
Dastolfo-Hromack C(4), Wang D(4)(6), Crammond DJ(4), Shaiman S(7), Dickey MW(7), 
Holt LL(8), Turner RS(9)(10), Fiez JA(1)(7)(10), Richardson RM(11)(9)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Pittsburgh, 15213.
(2)Movement Disorder and Neuromodulation Unit, Department of Neurology, Campus
Mitte, Charité- Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany, 10117.
(3)Machine Learning Department, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon
University, 15213.
(4)Brain Modulation Lab, Department of Neurological Surgery, University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 15213.
(5)Department of Physics, FCEN, University of Buenos Aires and IFIBA-CONICET,
Argentina, 1428.
(6)School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China 100084.
(7)Department of Communication Science and Disorders, University of Pittsburgh,
15213.
(8)Department of Psychology, Carnegie Mellon University, 15213.
(9)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine,
15213.
(10)University of Pittsburgh Brain Institute, 15213.
(11)Brain Modulation Lab, Department of Neurological Surgery, University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 15213 richardsonrm@upmc.edu.

The sensorimotor cortex is somatotopically organized to represent the vocal tract
articulators, such as lips, tongue, larynx, and jaw. How speech and articulatory 
features are encoded at the subcortical level, however, remains largely unknown. 
We analyzed local field potential (LFP) recordings from the subthalamic nucleus
(STN) and simultaneous electrocorticography recordings from the sensorimotor
cortex of 11 human subjects (1 female) with Parkinson's disease during
implantation of deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrodes, while they read aloud
three-phoneme words. The initial phonemes involved either articulation primarily 
with the tongue (coronal consonants) or the lips (labial consonants). We observed
significant increases in high gamma (60-150 Hz) power in both the STN and the
sensorimotor cortex that began before speech onset and persisted for the duration
of speech articulation. As expected from previous reports, in the sensorimotor
cortex, the primary articulators involved in the production of the initial
consonants were topographically represented by high gamma activity. We found that
STN high gamma activity also demonstrated specificity for the primary
articulator, although no clear topography was observed. In general, subthalamic
high gamma activity varied along the ventral-dorsal trajectory of the electrodes,
with greater high gamma power recorded in the dorsal locations of the STN.
Interestingly, the majority of significant articulator-discriminative activity in
the STN occurred prior to that in sensorimotor cortex. These results demonstrate 
that articulator-specific speech information is contained within high gamma
activity of the STN, but with different spatial and temporal organization
compared to similar information encoded in the sensorimotor cortex.SIGNIFICANCE
STATEMENTClinical and electrophysiological evidence suggest that the subthalamic 
nucleus is involved in speech, however, this important basal ganglia node is
ignored in current models of speech production. We previously showed that
subthalamic nucleus neurons differentially encode early and late aspects of
speech production, but no previous studies have examined subthalamic functional
organization for speech articulators. Using simultaneous local field potential
recordings from the sensorimotor cortex and the subthalamic nucleus in patients
with Parkinson's disease undergoing deep brain stimulation surgery, we discovered
that subthalamic nucleus high gamma activity tracks speech production at the
level of vocal tract articulators, prior to the onset of vocalization and often
prior to related cortical encoding.

Copyright © 2019 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2842-18.2019 
PMID: 30700532 


35. J Coll Physicians Surg Pak. 2019 Feb;29(2):99-100. doi:
10.29271/jcpsp.2019.02.99.

Radiomics - Using Artificial Intelligence in the Quest towards Personalised
Radiation Treatment.

Abbasi AN(1), Khan AMH(1), Qureshi BM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, The Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan.

DOI: 10.29271/jcpsp.2019.02.99 
PMID: 30700343 


36. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2019 Jan 31;19(Suppl 1):17. doi:
10.1186/s12911-019-0735-x.

Temporal indexing of medical entity in Chinese clinical notes.

Liu Z(1), Wang X(1), Chen Q(1), Tang B(2), Xu H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Network Oriented Intelligent Computation, Harbin Institute
of Technology, Shenzhen, Shenzhen, 518055, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Network Oriented Intelligent Computation, Harbin Institute
of Technology, Shenzhen, Shenzhen, 518055, China. tangbuzhou@gmail.com.
(3)School of Biomedical Informatics, The University of Texas Health Science
Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: The goal of temporal indexing is to select an occurred time or time
interval for each medical entity in clinical notes, so that all medical entities 
can be indexed on a united timeline, which could assist the understanding of
clinical notes and the further application of medical entities. Some temporal
relation shared tasks for the medical entity in English clinical notes have been 
organized in the past few years, such as the 2012 i2b2 NLP challenge, 2015 and
2016 clinical TempEval challenges. In these tasks, many heuristics rule-based and
machine learning-based systems have been developed. In recent years, the deep
neural network models have shown great potential on many problems including the
relation classification.
METHODS: In this paper, we propose a recurrent convolutional neural network
(RNN-CNN) model for the temporal indexing task, which consists of four layers:
input layer - generates representation for each context word of medical entities 
or temporal expressions; LSTM (long-short term memory) layer - learns the context
information of each word in a sentence and outputs a new word representation
sequence; CNN layer - extracts meaningful features from a sentence and outputs a 
new representation for medical entity or temporal expression; Output layer -
takes the representations of medical entity, temporal expression and relation
features as input and classifies the temporal relation. Finally, the time or time
interval for each medical entity can be directly selected according to the
probability of each temporal relation predicted by above model.
RESULTS: To investigate the performance of our RNN-CNN model for the temporal
indexing task, several baseline methods were also employed, such as the
rule-based, support vector machine (SVM), convolutional neural network (CNN) and 
recurrent neural network (RNN) methods. Experiments conducted on a manually
annotated corpus (including 563 clinical notes with 12,611 medical entities and
4006 temporal expressions) show that RNN-CNN model achieves the best F1-score of 
75.97% for temporal relation classification and the best accuracy of 71.96% for
temporal indexing.
CONCLUSIONS: Neural network methods perform much better than the traditional
rule-based and SVM-based method, which can capture more semantic information from
the context of medical entities and temporal expressions. Besides, all our
methods perform much better for the accurate time indexing than the time interval
indexing, so how to improve the performance for time interval indexing will be
the main focus in our future work.

DOI: 10.1186/s12911-019-0735-x 
PMID: 30700331 


37. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2019 Jan 31;19(Suppl 1):22. doi:
10.1186/s12911-019-0736-9.

Integrating shortest dependency path and sentence sequence into a deep learning
framework for relation extraction in clinical text.

Li Z(1), Yang Z(1), Shen C(1), Xu J(2), Zhang Y(2), Xu H(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Computer Science and Technology, Dalian University of Technology,
Dalian, 116024, China.
(2)School of Biomedical Informatics, The University of Texas Health Science
Center at Houston, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(3)School of Biomedical Informatics, The University of Texas Health Science
Center at Houston, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. hua.xu@uth.tmc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Extracting relations between important clinical entities is critical 
but very challenging for natural language processing (NLP) in the medical domain.
Researchers have applied deep learning-based approaches to clinical relation
extraction; but most of them consider sentence sequence only, without modeling
syntactic structures. The aim of this study was to utilize a deep neural network 
to capture the syntactic features and further improve the performances of
relation extraction in clinical notes.
METHODS: We propose a novel neural approach to model shortest dependency path
(SDP) between target entities together with the sentence sequence for clinical
relation extraction. Our neural network architecture consists of three modules:
(1) sentence sequence representation module using bidirectional long short-term
memory network (Bi-LSTM) to capture the features in the sentence sequence; (2)
SDP representation module implementing the convolutional neural network (CNN) and
Bi-LSTM network to capture the syntactic context for target entities using SDP
information; and (3) classification module utilizing a fully-connected layer with
Softmax function to classify the relation type between target entities.
RESULTS: Using the 2010 i2b2/VA relation extraction dataset, we compared our
approach with other baseline methods. Our experimental results show that the
proposed approach achieved significant improvements over comparable existing
methods, demonstrating the effectiveness of utilizing syntactic structures in
deep learning-based relation extraction. The F-measure of our method reaches
74.34% which is 2.5% higher than the method without using syntactic features.
CONCLUSIONS: We propose a new neural network architecture by modeling SDP along
with sentence sequence to extract multi-relations from clinical text. Our
experimental results show that the proposed approach significantly improve the
performances on clinical notes, demonstrating the effectiveness of syntactic
structures in deep learning-based relation extraction.

DOI: 10.1186/s12911-019-0736-9 
PMID: 30700301 


38. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2019 Jan 30;18(1):14. doi: 10.1186/s12933-019-0817-1.

Comparative effects of lipid lowering, hypoglycemic, antihypertensive and
antiplatelet medications on carotid artery intima-media thickness progression: a 
network meta-analysis.

Huang R(1), Mills K(2), Romero J(3)(4), Li Y(5), Hu Z(6), Cao Y(1), Huang H(7),
Xu Y(8), Jiang L(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, The First People's Hospital of Yunnan
Province, Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(2)Health Research Institute, University of Canberra, Kirinari St, Bruce, ACT,
2617, Australia.
(3)Department of Software Engineering and Artificial Intelligence, University of 
Canberra, Canberra, Australia.
(4)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Canberra, Canberra,
Australia.
(5)Department of Geriatrics, The First People's Hospital of Yunnan Province, No. 
157 Jinbi Road, Kunming, 650000, Yunnan, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, Institute of Surgery Research, Daping Hospital, Third
Military Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(7)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical
University, Chongqing, China.
(8)Statistical Laboratory, Chuangxu Institute of Life Science, Chongqing, China.
(9)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, The First People's Hospital of Yunnan
Province, Kunming, Yunnan, China. Lihong-jiang@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Carotid artery intima-media thickness (cIMT) progression is a
surrogate marker of atherosclerosis with a high predictive value for future CVD
risk. This study evaluates the comparative efficacies of lipid lowering,
hypoglycemic, antihypertensive and antiplatelet medications on cIMT progression.
METHODS: We conducted a network meta-analysis (NMA) to evaluate the relative
efficacies of several drug classes in modifying cIMT progression. After a
literature search in several electronic databases, studies were selected by
following predetermined eligibility criteria. An inverse variance-heterogeneity
model was used for NMA. Sensitivity analyses were performed to check the
reliability of the overall NMA, and transitivity analyses were performed to
examine the effects of modifiers on the NMA outcomes.
RESULTS: Data were taken from 47 studies (15,721 patients; age: 60.2 years [95%
confidence interval (CI) 58.8, 61.6]; BMI: 27.2 kg/m2 [95% CI 26.4, 28.0]; and
gender: 58.3% males [95% CI 48.3, 68.3]). Treatment duration was 25.8 months [95%
CI 22.9, 28.7]. Of the 13 drug classes in the network, treatment with
phosphodiesterase III inhibitors was the most effective in retarding annual mean 
cIMT against network placebo (weighted mean difference (WMD) - 0.059 mm [95% CI
- 0.099, - 0.020) followed by the calcium channel blockers (WMD - 0.055 mm [95%
CI - 0.099, 0.001]) and platelet adenosine diphosphate inhibitors (WMD - 0.033 mm
[95% CI - 0.058, 0.008]). These 3 drug classes also attained the same positions
when the NMA was conducted by using first-year changes in mean cIMT. In
transitivity analyses, longer treatment duration, higher body mass index (BMI),
and a higher baseline cIMT were found to be independently associated with a
lesser reduction in annual mean cIMT. However, in a multivariate analysis with
these 3 modifiers, none of these factors was significantly associated with annual
change in mean cIMT. In the placebo group, age was inversely associated with
annual change in mean cIMT independently.
CONCLUSION: Phosphodiesterase III inhibitors and calcium channel blockers are
found more effective than other drug classes in retarding cIMT progression. Age, 
BMI, and baseline cIMT may have some impact on these outcomes.

DOI: 10.1186/s12933-019-0817-1 
PMID: 30700294 


39. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2019 Jan 31;19(Suppl 1):16. doi:
10.1186/s12911-019-0733-z.

Early prediction of acute kidney injury following ICU admission using a
multivariate panel of physiological measurements.

Zimmerman LP(1), Reyfman PA(1), Smith ADR(1), Zeng Z(1), Kho A(1), Sanchez-Pinto 
LN(1), Luo Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, 60208, USA.
(2)Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, 60208, USA. Yuan.luo@northwestern.edu.

BACKGROUND: The development of acute kidney injury (AKI) during an intensive care
unit (ICU) admission is associated with increased morbidity and mortality.
METHODS: Our objective was to develop and validate a data driven multivariable
clinical predictive model for early detection of AKI among a large cohort of
adult critical care patients. We utilized data form the Medical Information Mart 
for Intensive Care III (MIMIC-III) for all patients who had a creatinine measured
for 3 days following ICU admission and excluded patients with pre-existing
condition of Chronic Kidney Disease and Acute Kidney Injury on admission. Data
extracted included patient age, gender, ethnicity, creatinine, other vital signs 
and lab values during the first day of ICU admission, whether the patient was
mechanically ventilated during the first day of ICU admission, and the hourly
rate of urine output during the first day of ICU admission.
RESULTS: Utilizing the demographics, the clinical data and the laboratory test
measurements from Day 1 of ICU admission, we accurately predicted max serum
creatinine level during Day 2 and Day 3 with a root mean square error of
0.224 mg/dL. We demonstrated that using machine learning models (multivariate
logistic regression, random forest and artificial neural networks) with
demographics and physiologic features can predict AKI onset as defined by the
current clinical guideline with a competitive AUC (mean AUC 0.783 by our
all-feature, logistic-regression model), while previous models aimed at more
specific patient cohorts.
CONCLUSIONS: Experimental results suggest that our model has the potential to
assist clinicians in identifying patients at greater risk of new onset of AKI in 
critical care setting. Prospective trials with independent model training and
external validation cohorts are needed to further evaluate the clinical utility
of this approach and potentially instituting interventions to decrease the
likelihood of developing AKI.

DOI: 10.1186/s12911-019-0733-z 
PMID: 30700291 


40. Genes (Basel). 2019 Jan 29;10(2). pii: E98. doi: 10.3390/genes10020098.

A Hybrid Clustering Algorithm for Identifying Cell Types from Single-Cell RNA-Seq
Data.

Zhu X(1)(2), Li HD(3), Xu Y(4), Guo L(5), Wu FX(6), Duan G(7), Wang J(8).

Author information: 
(1)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Central South University,
Changsha, Hunan 410083, China. xszhu@csu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Yulin Normal University, Yulin,
Guangxi 537000, China. xszhu@csu.edu.cn.
(3)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Central South University,
Changsha, Hunan 410083, China. hongdong@csu.edu.cn.
(4)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Central South University,
Changsha, Hunan 410083, China. xu_yunpei@csu.edu.cn.
(5)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Yulin Normal University, Yulin,
Guangxi 537000, China. jgxygll@163.com.
(6)Division of Biomedical Engineering and Department of Mechanical Engineering,
University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SKS7N5A9, Canada. faw341@mail.usask.ca.
(7)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Central South University,
Changsha, Hunan 410083, China. duangh@csu.edu.cn.
(8)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Central South University,
Changsha, Hunan 410083, China. jxwang@mail.csu.edu.cn.

Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has recently brought new insight into cell
differentiation processes and functional variation in cell subtypes from
homogeneous cell populations. A lack of prior knowledge makes unsupervised
machine learning methods, such as clustering, suitable for analyzing scRNA-seq . 
However, there are several limitations to overcome, including high
dimensionality, clustering result instability, and parameter adjustment
complexity. In this study, we propose a method by combining structure entropy and
k nearest neighbor to identify cell subpopulations in scRNA-seq data. In contrast
to existing clustering methods for identifying cell subtypes, minimized structure
entropy results in natural communities without specifying the number of clusters.
To investigate the performance of our model, we applied it to eight scRNA-seq
datasets and compared our method with three existing methods (nonnegative matrix 
factorization, single-cell interpretation via multikernel learning, and
structural entropy minimization principle). The experimental results showed that 
our approach achieves, on average, better performance in these datasets compared 
to the benchmark methods.

DOI: 10.3390/genes10020098 
PMID: 30700040 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


41. Cancers (Basel). 2019 Jan 29;11(2). pii: E155. doi: 10.3390/cancers11020155.

An Integrative Data Mining and Omics-Based Translational Model for the
Identification and Validation of Oncogenic Biomarkers of Pancreatic Cancer.

Long NP(1), Jung KH(2), Anh NH(3), Yan HH(4), Nghi TD(5), Park S(6), Yoon SJ(7), 
Min JE(8), Kim HM(9), Lim JH(10), Kim JM(11), Lim J(12), Lee S(13), Hong SS(14), 
Kwon SW(15).

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Korea.
phuoclong@snu.ac.kr.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, Inha University, 3-ga,
Sinheung-dong, Jung-gu, Incheon 400-712, Korea. inhafuture@gmail.com.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Korea.
2018-23140@snu.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, Inha University, 3-ga,
Sinheung-dong, Jung-gu, Incheon 400-712, Korea. yanhonghua69@hotmail.com.
(5)School of Medicine, Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh 70000, Vietnam.
trandiemnghi@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Statistics, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Korea.
inmybrain@snu.ac.kr.
(7)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Korea.
supercanboy@snu.ac.kr.
(8)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Korea.
mje0107@snu.ac.kr.
(9)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Korea.
snuhmkim04@snu.ac.kr.
(10)Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, Inha University, 3-ga,
Sinheung-dong, Jung-gu, Incheon 400-712, Korea. limjh@inha.ac.kr.
(11)Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, Inha University, 3-ga,
Sinheung-dong, Jung-gu, Incheon 400-712, Korea. jmkpath@inha.ac.kr.
(12)Department of Statistics, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Korea.
johanlim@snu.ac.kr.
(13)Division of Life and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Ewha Womans University, Seoul
120-750, Korea. sanghyuk@ewha.ac.kr.
(14)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, Inha University,
3-ga, Sinheung-dong, Jung-gu, Incheon 400-712, Korea. hongs@inha.ac.kr.
(15)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Korea.
swkwon@snu.ac.kr.

Substantial alterations at the multi-omics level of pancreatic cancer (PC) impede
the possibility to diagnose and treat patients in early stages. Herein, we
conducted an integrative omics-based translational analysis, utilizing
next-generation sequencing, transcriptome meta-analysis, and
immunohistochemistry, combined with statistical learning, to validate multiplex
biomarker candidates for the diagnosis, prognosis, and management of PC.
Experiment-based validation was conducted and supportive evidence for the
essentiality of the candidates in PC were found at gene expression or protein
level by practical biochemical methods. Remarkably, the random forests (RF) model
exhibited an excellent diagnostic performance and LAMC2, ANXA2, ADAM9, and APLP2 
greatly influenced its decisions. An explanation approach for the RF model was
successfully constructed. Moreover, protein expression of LAMC2, ANXA2, ADAM9,
and APLP2 was found correlated and significantly higher in PC patients in
independent cohorts. Survival analysis revealed that patients with high
expression of ADAM9 (Hazard ratio (HR)OS = 2.2, p-value < 0.001), ANXA2 (HROS =
2.1, p-value < 0.001), and LAMC2 (HRDFS = 1.8, p-value = 0.012) exhibited poorer 
survival rates. In conclusion, we successfully explore hidden biological insights
from large-scale omics data and suggest that LAMC2, ANXA2, ADAM9, and APLP2 are
robust biomarkers for early diagnosis, prognosis, and management for PC.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers11020155 
PMID: 30700038 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to
publish the results.


42. Sensors (Basel). 2019 Jan 29;19(3). pii: E555. doi: 10.3390/s19030555.

Spatial Reorganization of Myoelectric Activities in Extensor Digitorum for
Sustained Finger Force Production.

Gao Z(1)(2), Tang S(3)(4), Wu X(5)(6), Fu Q(7), Fan X(8), Zhao Y(9)(10), Hu
L(11)(12), Chen L(13)(14), Hou W(15)(16)(17).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Biorheological Science and Technology, Ministry of
Education, Bioengineering College, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, China.
20141901009@cqu.edu.cn.
(2)Chongqing Engineering Research Center of Medical Electronics Technology,
Chongqing 400044, China. 20141901009@cqu.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Biorheological Science and Technology, Ministry of
Education, Bioengineering College, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, China.
20161902051@cqu.edu.cn.
(4)Chongqing Engineering Research Center of Medical Electronics Technology,
Chongqing 400044, China. 20161902051@cqu.edu.cn.
(5)Key Laboratory of Biorheological Science and Technology, Ministry of
Education, Bioengineering College, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, China.
x.y.wu@cqu.edu.cn.
(6)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Artificial Intelligence and Service Robot Control 
Technology, Chongqing 400044, China. x.y.wu@cqu.edu.cn.
(7)College of Automation, Harbin Engineering University, Harbin 150001, China.
frannnnnk@hrbeu.edu.cn.
(8)Chongqing Engineering Research Center of Medical Electronics Technology,
Chongqing 400044, China. xingyu.fan02@gmail.com.
(9)Key Laboratory of Biorheological Science and Technology, Ministry of
Education, Bioengineering College, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, China.
20161901009@cqu.edu.cn.
(10)Chongqing Engineering Research Center of Medical Electronics Technology,
Chongqing 400044, China. 20161901009@cqu.edu.cn.
(11)Key Laboratory of Biorheological Science and Technology, Ministry of
Education, Bioengineering College, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, China.
20171901037@cqu.edu.cn.
(12)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Artificial Intelligence and Service Robot Control
Technology, Chongqing 400044, China. 20171901037@cqu.edu.cn.
(13)Chongqing Engineering Research Center of Medical Electronics Technology,
Chongqing 400044, China. clxyz@cqu.edu.cn.
(14)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Artificial Intelligence and Service Robot Control
Technology, Chongqing 400044, China. clxyz@cqu.edu.cn.
(15)Key Laboratory of Biorheological Science and Technology, Ministry of
Education, Bioengineering College, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, China.
w.s.hou@cqu.edu.cn.
(16)Chongqing Engineering Research Center of Medical Electronics Technology,
Chongqing 400044, China. w.s.hou@cqu.edu.cn.
(17)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Artificial Intelligence and Service Robot Control
Technology, Chongqing 400044, China. w.s.hou@cqu.edu.cn.

The study aims to explore the spatial distribution of multi-tendinous muscle
modulated by central nervous system (CNS) during sustained contraction. Nine
subjects were recruited to trace constant target forces with right index finger
extension. Surface electromyography (sEMG) of extensor digitorum (ED) were
recorded with a 32-channel electrode array. Nine successive topographic maps (TM)
were obtained. Pixel wise analysis was utilized to extract subtracted topographic
maps (STM), which exhibited inhomogeneous distribution. STMs were characterized
into hot, warm, and cool regions corresponding to higher, moderate, and lower
change ranges, respectively. The relative normalized area (normalized to the
first phase) of these regions demonstrated different changing trends as rising,
plateauing, and falling over time, respectively. Moreover, the duration of these 
trends were found to be affected by force level. The rising/falling periods were 
longer at lower force levels, while the plateau can be achieved from the initial 
phase for higher force output (45% maximal voluntary contraction). The results
suggested muscle activity reorganization in ED plays a role to maintain sustained
contraction. Furthermore, the decreased dynamical regulation ability to spatial
reorganization may be prone to induce fatigue. This finding implied that spatial 
reorganization of muscle activity as a regulation mechanism contribute to
maintain constant force production.

DOI: 10.3390/s19030555 
PMID: 30699981 


43. Sensors (Basel). 2019 Jan 29;19(3). pii: E553. doi: 10.3390/s19030553.

Deploying Acoustic Detection Algorithms on Low-Cost, Open-Source Acoustic Sensors
for Environmental Monitoring.

Prince P(1), Hill A(2), Piña Covarrubias E(3), Doncaster P(4), Snaddon JL(5),
Rogers A(6).

Author information: 
(1)School of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton,
Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK. pcp1g11@soton.ac.uk.
(2)School of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton,
Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK. ah1u14@soton.ac.uk.
(3)School of Biological Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17
1BJ, UK. e.pinacovarrubias@soton.ac.uk.
(4)School of Biological Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17
1BJ, UK. cpd@soton.ac.uk.
(5)School of Geography and Environmental Science, University of Southampton,
Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK. j.l.snaddon@soton.ac.uk.
(6)Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 2JD, UK.
alex.rogers@cs.ox.ac.uk.

Conservation researchers require low-cost access to acoustic monitoring
technology. However, affordable tools are often constrained to short-term studies
due to high energy consumption and limited storage. To enable long-term
monitoring, energy and space efficiency must be improved on such tools. This
paper describes the development and deployment of three acoustic detection
algorithms that reduce the power and storage requirements of acoustic monitoring 
on affordable, open-source hardware. The algorithms aim to detect bat
echolocation, to search for evidence of an endangered cicada species, and also to
collect evidence of poaching in a protected nature reserve. The algorithms are
designed to run on AudioMoth: a low-cost, open-source acoustic monitoring device,
developed by the authors and widely adopted by the conservation community. Each
algorithm addresses a detection task of increasing complexity, implementing extra
analytical steps to account for environmental conditions such as wind, analysing 
samples multiple times to prevent missed events, and incorporating a hidden
Markov model for sample classification in both the time and frequency domain. For
each algorithm, we report on real-world deployments carried out with partner
organisations and also benchmark the hidden Markov model against a convolutional 
neural network, a deep-learning technique commonly used for acoustics. The
deployments demonstrate how acoustic detection algorithms extend the use of
low-cost, open-source hardware and facilitate a new avenue for conservation
researchers to perform large-scale monitoring.

DOI: 10.3390/s19030553 
PMID: 30699950 


44. Sensors (Basel). 2019 Jan 29;19(3). pii: E551. doi: 10.3390/s19030551.

EEG Classification of Motor Imagery Using a Novel Deep Learning Framework.

Dai M(1)(2), Zheng D(3)(4), Na R(5)(6), Wang S(7), Zhang S(8)(9).

Author information: 
(1)School of Instrumentation and Optoelectronic Engineering, Beihang University, 
Beijing 100191, China. daimengxi@buaa.edu.cn.
(2)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Big Data-based Precision Medicine,
Beihang University, Beijing 100191, China. daimengxi@buaa.edu.cn.
(3)School of Instrumentation and Optoelectronic Engineering, Beihang University, 
Beijing 100191, China. zhengdezhi@buaa.edu.cn.
(4)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Big Data-based Precision Medicine,
Beihang University, Beijing 100191, China. zhengdezhi@buaa.edu.cn.
(5)School of Instrumentation and Optoelectronic Engineering, Beihang University, 
Beijing 100191, China. RUI_NA@buaa.edu.cn.
(6)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Big Data-based Precision Medicine,
Beihang University, Beijing 100191, China. RUI_NA@buaa.edu.cn.
(7)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Beihang University, Beijing
100191, China. wangshuai@buaa.edu.cn.
(8)School of Instrumentation and Optoelectronic Engineering, Beihang University, 
Beijing 100191, China. zhangshuailei@buaa.edu.cn.
(9)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Big Data-based Precision Medicine,
Beihang University, Beijing 100191, China. zhangshuailei@buaa.edu.cn.

Successful applications of brain-computer interface (BCI) approaches to motor
imagery (MI) are still limited. In this paper, we propose a classification
framework for MI electroencephalogram (EEG) signals that combines a convolutional
neural network (CNN) architecture with a variational autoencoder (VAE) for
classification. The decoder of the VAE generates a Gaussian distribution, so it
can be used to fit the Gaussian distribution of EEG signals. A new representation
of input was developed by combining the time, frequency, and channel information 
from the EEG signal, and the CNN-VAE method was designed and optimized
accordingly for this form of input. In this network, the classification of the
extracted CNN features is performed via the deep network VAE. Our framework, with
an average kappa value of 0.564, outperforms the best classification method in
the literature for BCI Competition IV dataset 2b with a 3% improvement.
Furthermore, using our own dataset, the CNN-VAE framework also yields the best
performance for both three-electrode and five-electrode EEGs and achieves the
best average kappa values 0.568 and 0.603, respectively. Our results show that
the proposed CNN-VAE method raises performance to the current state of the art.

DOI: 10.3390/s19030551 
PMID: 30699946 


45. Mar Drugs. 2019 Jan 29;17(2). pii: E81. doi: 10.3390/md17020081.

Predicting Blood⁻Brain Barrier Permeability of Marine-Derived Kinase Inhibitors
Using Ensemble Classifiers Reveals Potential Hits for Neurodegenerative
Disorders.

Plisson F(1)(2), Piggott AM(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)CONACYT, Unidad de Genómica Avanzada, Laboratorio Nacional de Genómica para la
Biodiversidad (Langebio), Centro de Investigación y de Estudios Avanzados del
IPN, Irapuato, Guanajuato 36824, Mexico. fabien.plisson@cinvestav.mx.
(2)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, St. Lucia,
QLD 4072, Australia. fabien.plisson@cinvestav.mx.
(3)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, St. Lucia,
QLD 4072, Australia. andrew.piggott@mq.edu.au.
(4)Department of Molecular Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW 2109,
Australia. andrew.piggott@mq.edu.au.

The recent success of small-molecule kinase inhibitors as anticancer drugs has
generated significant interest in their application to other clinical areas, such
as disorders of the central nervous system (CNS). However, most kinase inhibitor 
drug candidates investigated to date have been ineffective at treating CNS
disorders, mainly due to poor blood⁻brain barrier (BBB) permeability. It is,
therefore, imperative to evaluate new chemical entities for both kinase
inhibition and BBB permeability. Over the last 35 years, marine biodiscovery has 
yielded 471 natural products reported as kinase inhibitors, yet very few have
been evaluated for BBB permeability. In this study, we revisited these marine
natural products and predicted their ability to cross the BBB by applying freely 
available open-source chemoinformatics and machine learning algorithms to a
training set of 332 previously reported CNS-penetrant small molecules. We
evaluated several regression and classification models, and found that our
optimised classifiers (random forest, gradient boosting, and logistic regression)
outperformed other models, with overall cross-validated model accuracies of
80%⁻82% and 78%⁻80% on external testing. All 3 binary classifiers predicted 13
marine-derived kinase inhibitors with appropriate physicochemical characteristics
for BBB permeability.

DOI: 10.3390/md17020081 
PMID: 30699889 


46. J Affect Disord. 2019 Feb 15;245:869-884. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.073. Epub
2018 Nov 12.

The use of machine learning in the study of suicidal and non-suicidal
self-injurious thoughts and behaviors: A systematic review.

Burke TA(1), Ammerman BA(2), Jacobucci R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Temple University, Department of Psychology, Philadelphia, PA, USA. Electronic
address: taylor.burke@temple.edu.
(2)University of Notre Dame, Department of Psychology, Notre Dame, IN, USA.

BACKGROUND: Machine learning techniques offer promise to improve suicide risk
prediction. In the current systematic review, we aimed to review the existing
literature on the application of machine learning techniques to predict
self-injurious thoughts and behaviors (SITBs).
METHOD: We systematically searched PsycINFO, PsycARTICLES, ERIC, CINAHL, and
MEDLINE for articles published through February 2018.
RESULTS: Thirty-five articles met criteria to be included in the review. Included
articles were reviewed by outcome: suicide death, suicide attempt, suicide plan, 
suicidal ideation, suicide risk, and non-suicidal self-injury. We observed three 
general aims in the use of SITB-focused machine learning analyses: (1) improving 
prediction accuracy, (2) identifying important model indicators (i.e., variable
selection) and indicator interactions, and (3) modeling underlying subgroups. For
studies with the aim of boosting predictive accuracy, we observed greater
prediction accuracy of SITBs than in previous studies using traditional
statistical methods. Studies using machine learning for variable selection
purposes have both replicated findings of well-known SITB risk factors and
identified novel variables that may augment model performance. Finally, some of
these studies have allowed for subgroup identification, which in turn has helped 
to inform clinical cutoffs.
LIMITATIONS: Limitations of the current review include relatively low paper
sample size, inconsistent reporting procedures resulting in an inability to
compare model accuracy across studies, and lack of model validation on external
samples.
CONCLUSIONS: We concluded that leveraging machine learning techniques to further 
predictive accuracy and identify novel indicators will aid in the prediction and 
prevention of suicide.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.11.073 
PMID: 30699872 

